<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="wings-of-a-dove" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Wings of a Dove</h2>
			<section id="wings-of-a-dove-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>At sunset, when the rosy light was dying</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Far down the pathway of the west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw a lonely dove in silence flying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To be at rest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pilgrim of air, I cried, could I but borrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy wandering wings, thy freedom blest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'd fly away from every careful sorrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And find my rest.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="wings-of-a-dove-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But when the filmy veil of dusk was falling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Home flew the dove to seek his nest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep in the forest where his mate was calling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To love and rest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Peace, heart of mine! no longer sigh to wander;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lose not thy life in barren quest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There are no happy islands over yonder;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Come home and rest.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1874.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-parting-and-the-coming-guest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Parting and the Coming Guest</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Who watched the worn-out Winter die?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who, peering through the window-pane</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At nightfall, under sleet and rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saw the old graybeard totter by?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who listened to his parting sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sobbing of his feeble breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His whispered colloquy with Death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And when his all of life was done</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stood near to bid a last good-bye?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of all his former friends not one</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saw the forsaken Winter die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who welcomed in the maiden Spring?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who heard her footfall, swift and light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As fairy-dancing in the night?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who guessed what happy dawn would bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flutter of her bluebird's wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The blossom of her mayflower-face</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To brighten every shady place?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One morning, down the village street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Oh, here am I,” we heard her sing,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And none had been awake to greet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The coming of the maiden Spring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But look, her violet eyes are wet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With bright, unfallen, dewy tears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And in her song my fancy hears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A note of sorrow trembling yet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps, beyond the town, she met</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Old Winter as he limped away</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To die forlorn, and let him lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His weary head upon her knee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And kissed his forehead with regret</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For one so gray and lonely,—see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her eyes with tender tears are wet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And so, by night, while we were all at rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I think the coming sped the parting guest.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1873.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="when-tulips-bloom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">When Tulips Bloom</h2>
			<section id="when-tulips-bloom-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When tulips bloom in Union Square,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And timid breaths of vernal air</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Go wandering down the dusty town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like children lost in Vanity Fair;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When every long, unlovely row</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of westward houses stands aglow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And leads the eyes to sunset skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond the hills where green trees grow;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then weary seems the street parade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And weary books, and weary trade:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'm only wishing to go a-fishing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this the month of May was made.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="when-tulips-bloom-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I guess the pussy-willows now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are creeping out on every bough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Along the brook; and robins look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For early worms behind the plough.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The thistle-birds have changed their dun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For yellow coats, to match the sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in the same array of flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Dandelion Show's begun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The flocks of young anemones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are dancing round the budding trees:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who can help wishing to go a-fishing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In days as full of joy as these?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="when-tulips-bloom-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I think the meadow-lark's clear sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaks upward slowly from the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While on the wing the bluebirds ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their wedding-bells to woods around.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The flirting chewink calls his dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind the bush; and very near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where water flows, where green grass grows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Song-sparrows gently sing, “Good cheer.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And, best of all, through twilight's calm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hermit-thrush repeats his psalm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How much I'm wishing to go a-fishing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In days so sweet with music's balm!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="when-tulips-bloom-4">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis not a proud desire of mine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ask for nothing superfine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No heavy weight, no salmon great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To break the record, or my line.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Only an idle little stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose amber waters softly gleam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where I may wade through woodland shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cast the fly, and loaf, and dream:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Only a trout or two, to dart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From foaming pools, and try my art:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Tis all I'm wishing—old-fashioned fishing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And just a day on Nature's heart.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1894.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-after-echo" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The After-Echo</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How long the echoes love to play</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Around the shore of silence, as a wave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Retreating circles down the sand!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One after one, with sweet delay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mellow sounds that cliff and island gave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have lingered in the crescent bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until, by lightest breezes fanned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They float far off beyond the dying day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And leave it still as death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">But hark,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Another singing breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Comes from the edge of dark;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">A note as clear and slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">As falls from some enchanted bell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Or spirit, passing from the world below,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">That whispers back, Farewell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">So in the heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">When, fading slowly down the past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Fond memories depart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And each that leaves it seems the last;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Long after all the rest are flown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Returns a solitary tone,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The after-echo of departed years,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And touches all the soul to tears.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1871.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="matins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Matins</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Flowers rejoice when night is done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lift their heads to greet the sun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweetest looks and odours raise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a silent hymn of praise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So my heart would turn away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the darkness to the day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lying open in God's sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a flower in the light.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-fall-of-the-leaves" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Fall of the Leaves</h2>
			<section id="the-fall-of-the-leaves-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In warlike pomp, with banners flowing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The regiments of autumn stood:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw their gold and scarlet glowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From every hillside, every wood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Above the sea the clouds were keeping</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their secret leaguer, gray and still;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They sent their misty vanguard creeping</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With muffled step from hill to hill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All day the sullen armies drifted</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Athwart the sky with slanting rain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At sunset for a space they lifted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With dusk they settled down again.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-fall-of-the-leaves-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>At dark the winds began to blow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mutterings distant, low;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From sea and sky they called their strength</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Till with an angry, broken roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Like billows on an unseen shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their fury burst at length.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">I heard through the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The rush and the clamour;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The pulse of the fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Like blows of Thor's hammer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The pattering flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of the leaves, and the anguished</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Moan of the forest vanquished.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">At daybreak came a gusty song:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Shout! the winds are strong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The little people of the leaves are fled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Shout! The Autumn is dead!”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-fall-of-the-leaves-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The storm is ended! The impartial sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laughs down upon the battle lost and won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crowns the triumph of the cloudy host</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In rolling lines retreating to the coast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But we, fond lovers of the woodland shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And grateful friends of every fallen leaf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forget the glories of the cloud-parade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And walk the ruined woods in quiet grief.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For ever so our thoughtful hearts repeat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On fields of triumph dirges of defeat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still we turn on gala-days to tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the rustling memories of the dead.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1874.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="a-snow-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Snow-Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Does the snow fall at sea?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yes, when the north winds blow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the wild clouds fly low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Out of each gloomy wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Silently glimmering,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Over the stormy sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Falleth the snow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Does the snow hide the sea?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nay, on the tossing plains</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Never a flake remains;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Drift never resteth there;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Vanishing everywhere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into the hungry sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Falleth the snow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What means the snow at sea?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whirled in the veering blast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thickly the flakes drive past;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each like a childish ghost</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wavers, and then is lost;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the forgetful sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Fadeth the snow.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1875.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="if-all-the-skies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">If All the Skies</h2>
			<p>
				<span>If all the skies were sunshine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our faces would be fain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To feel once more upon them</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The cooling plash of rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If all the world were music,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our hearts would often long</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For one sweet strain of silence.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To break the endless song.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If life were always merry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our souls would seek relief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rest from weary laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the quiet arms of grief.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="roslin-and-hawthornden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Roslin and Hawthornden</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Fair Roslin Chapel, how divine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The art that reared thy costly shrine!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy carven columns must have grown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By magic, like a dream in stone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet not within thy storied wall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would I in adoration fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So gladly as within the glen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That leads to lovely Hawthornden.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A long-drawn aisle, with roof of green</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And vine-clad pillars, while between,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Esk runs murmuring on its way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In living music night and day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Within the temple of this wood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The martyrs of the covenant stood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rolled the psalm, and poured the prayer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Nature's solemn altar-stair.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>Edinburgh, 1877.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-maryland-yellow-throat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Maryland Yellow-Throat</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When May bedecks the naked trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With tassels and embroideries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And many blue-eyed violets beam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along the edges of the stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hear a voice that seems to say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now near at hand, now far away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Witchery—witchery—witchery.</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An incantation so serene,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So innocent, befits the scene:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There's magic in that small bird's note—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See, there he flits—the Yellow-throat;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A living sunbeam, tipped with wings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A spark of light that shines and sings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Witchery—witchery—witchery.</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You prophet with a pleasant name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If out of Mary-land you came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know the way that thither goes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Mary's lovely garden grows:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fly swiftly back to her, I pray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And try to call her down this way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Witchery—witchery—witchery!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tell her to leave her cockle-shells,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all her little silver bells</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That blossom into melody,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all her maids less fair than she.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She does not need these pretty things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For everywhere she comes, she brings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Witchery—witchery—witchery!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The woods are greening overhead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And flowers adorn each mossy bed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The waters babble as they run—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One thing is lacking, only one:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If Mary were but here to-day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would believe your charming lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Witchery—witchery—witchery!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Along the shady road I look—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who's coming now across the brook?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woodland maid, all robed in white—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The leaves dance round her with delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stream laughs out beneath her feet—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sing, merry bird, the charm's complete,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Witchery—witchery—witchery!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1895.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-whip-poor-will" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Whip-Poor-Will</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Do you remember, father,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It seems so long ago,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The day we fished together</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Along the Pocono?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At dusk I waited for you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beside the lumber-mill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there I heard a hidden bird</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That chanted, “whip-poor-will,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Whippoorwill! whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sad and shrill,—“<em>whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The place was all deserted;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The mill-wheel hung at rest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lonely star of evening</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was throbbing in the west;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The veil of night was falling;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The winds were folded still;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And everywhere the trembling air</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Re-echoed “whip-poor-will!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Whippoorwill! whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sad and shrill,—“<em>whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You seemed so long in coming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I felt so much alone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wide, dark world was round me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And life was all unknown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hand of sorrow touched me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And made my senses thrill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all the pain that haunts the strain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of mournful whip-poor-will.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Whippoorwill! whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sad and shrill,—“<em>whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What knew I then of trouble?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An idle little lad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I had not learned the lessons</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That make men wise and sad.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I dreamed of grief and parting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And something seemed to fill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart with tears, while in my ears</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Resounded “whip-poor-will.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Whippoorwill! whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sad and shrill,—“<em>whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'Twas but a cloud of sadness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That lightly passed away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I have learned the meaning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of sorrow, since that day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For nevermore at twilight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beside the silent mill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll wait for you, in the falling dew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And hear the whip-poor-will.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Whippoorwill! whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sad and shrill,—“<em>whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But if you still remember</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In that fair land of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pains and fears that touch us</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Along this edge of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I think all earthly grieving,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all our mortal ill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To you must seem like a sad boy's dream.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who hears the whip-poor-will.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“<em>Whippoorwill! whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A passing thrill,—“<em>whippoorwill!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1894.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-veery" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Veery</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The moonbeams over Arno's vale in silver flood were pouring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When first I heard the nightingale a long-lost love deploring.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So passionate, so full of pain, it sounded strange and eerie;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I longed to hear a simpler strain,—the wood-notes of the veery.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The laverock sings a bonny lay above the Scottish heather;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It sprinkles down from far away like light and love together;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He drops the golden notes to greet his brooding mate, his dearie;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I only know one song more sweet,—the vespers of the veery.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In English gardens, green and bright and full of fruity treasure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard the blackbird with delight repeat his merry measure:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ballad was a pleasant one, the tune was loud and cheery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet, with every setting sun, I listened for the veery.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But far away, and far away, the tawny thrush is singing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New England woods, at close of day, with that clear chant are ringing:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when my light of life is low, and heart and flesh are weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I fain would hear, before I go, the wood-notes of the veery.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1895.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-lily-of-yorrow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Lily of Yorrow</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Deep in the heart of the forest the lily of Yorrow is growing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blue is its cup as the sky, and with mystical odour o'erflowing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Faintly it falls through the shadowy glades when the south wind is blowing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sweet are the primroses pale and the violets after a shower;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet are the borders of pinks and the blossoming grapes on the bower;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweeter by far is the breath of that far-away woodland flower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Searching and strange in its sweetness, it steals like a perfume enchanted</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under the arch of the forest, and all who perceive it are haunted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking and seeking for ever, till sight of the lily is granted.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who can describe how it grows, with its chalice of lazuli leaning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over a crystalline spring, where the ferns and the mosses are greening?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who can imagine its beauty, or utter the depth of its meaning?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Calm of the journeying stars, and repose of the mountains olden,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Joy of the swift-running rivers, and glory of sunsets golden,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Secrets that cannot be told in the heart of the flower are holden.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Surely to see it is peace and the crown of a life-long endeavour;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surely to pluck it is gladness,—but they who have found it can never</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell of the gladness and peace: they are hid from our vision for ever.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'Twas but a moment ago that a comrade was walking near me:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turning aside from the pathway he murmured a greeting to cheer me,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then he was lost in the shade, and I called but he did not hear me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Why should I dream he is dead, and bewail him with passionate sorrow?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surely I know there is gladness in finding the lily of Yorrow:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He has discovered it first, and perhaps I shall find it to-morrow.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1894.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="tennyson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Tennyson</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">In Lucem Transitus, October, 1892</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>From the misty shores of midnight, touched with splendours of the moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the singing tides of heaven, and the light more clear than noon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Passed a soul that grew to music till it was with God in tune.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Brother of the greatest poets, true to nature, true to art;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lover of Immortal Love, uplifter of the human heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who shall cheer us with high music, who shall sing, if thou depart?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Silence here—for love is silent, gazing on the lessening sail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silence here—for grief is voiceless when the mighty minstrels fail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silence here—but far beyond us, many voices crying, Hail!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-ballad-of-claremont-hill" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Ballad of Claremont Hill</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">The roar of the city is low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Muffled by new-fallen snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sign of the wintry moon is small and round and still.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Will you come with me to-night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">To see a pleasant sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Away on the river-side, at the edge of Claremont Hill?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">“And what shall we see there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">But streets that are new and bare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And many a desolate place that the city is coming to fill;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And a soldier's tomb of stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And a few trees standing alone—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will you walk for that through the cold, to the edge of Claremont Hill?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">But there's more than that for me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">In the place that I fain would see:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There's a glimpse of the grace that helps us all to bear life's ill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">A touch of the vital breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">That keeps the world from death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A flower that never fades, on the edge of Claremont Hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">For just where the road swings round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">In a narrow strip of ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where a group of forest trees are lingering fondly still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">There's a grave of the olden time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">When the garden bloomed in its prime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the children laughed and sang on the edge of Claremont Hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">The marble is pure and white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And even in this dim light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You may read the simple words that are written there if you will;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">You may hear a father tell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Of the child he loved so well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A hundred years ago, on the edge of Claremont Hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">The tide of the city has rolled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Across that bower of old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And blotted out the beds of the rose and the daffodil;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">But the little playmate sleeps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And the shrine of love still keeps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A record of happy days, on the edge of Claremont Hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">The river is pouring down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">To the crowded, careless town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the intricate wheels of trade are grinding on like a mill;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">But the clamorous noise and strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Of the hurrying waves of life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flow soft by this haven of peace on the edge of Claremont Hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">And after all, my friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">When the tale of our years shall end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be it long or short, or lowly or great, as God may will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">What better praise could we hear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Than this of the child so dear:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You have made my life more sweet, on the edge of Claremont Hill?</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>December, 1896.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="four-things" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Four Things</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Four things a man must learn to do</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If he would make his record true:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To think without confusion clearly;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To love his fellow-men sincerely;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To act from honest motives purely;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To trust in God and Heaven securely.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="rendezvous" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Rendezvous</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I count that friendship little worth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which has not many things untold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Great longings that no words can hold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And passion-secrets waiting birth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Along the slender wires of speech</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some message from the heart is sent;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But who can tell the whole that's meant?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our dearest thoughts are out of reach.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have not seen thee, though mine eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hold now the image of thy face;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In vain, through form, I strive to trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soul I love: that deeper lies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A thousand accidents control</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our meeting here. Clasp hand in hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And swear to meet me in that land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where friends hold converse soul to soul.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="transformation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Transformation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Only a little shrivelled seed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It might be flower, or grass, or weed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only a box of earth on the edge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a narrow, dusty window-ledge;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only a few scant summer showers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only a few clear shining hours;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That was all. Yet God could make</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of these, for a sick child's sake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A blossom-wonder, fair and sweet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As ever broke at an angel's feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Only a life of barren pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wet with sorrowful tears for rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Warmed sometimes by a wandering gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of joy, that seemed but a happy dream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A life as common and brown and bare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the box of earth in the window there;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet it bore, at last, the precious bloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a perfect soul in that narrow room;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pure as the snowy leaves that fold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the flower's heart of gold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-my-lady-graygown-with-a-handful-of-verses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To My Lady Graygown: With a Handful of Verses</h2>
			<p>
				<span>"Wayside songs and meadow blossoms; nothing perfect, nothing rare;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every poet's ordered, garden yields a hundred flowers more fair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Master-singers know a music richer far beyond compare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet the reaper in the harvest, 'mid the burden and the heat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hums a half remembered ballad, finds the easy cadence sweet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sees the very blue of heaven in the corn-bloom at his feet."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For the Over-Lord is generous, no straight walls His love confine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto few, for world-wide glory, comes the symphony divine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto all, for simple pleasure, come the thoughts that sing and shine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So to you, dear heart, I bring them: you, among the busy throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walk beside me, help me, cheer me, keep the days from seeming long:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the blossoms, all the ballads, touched by you, to you belong —</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You, my flower; you, my song!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="rappelle-toi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">"Rappelle-Toi"</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Remember, when the timid light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the enchanted hall of dawn is gleaming;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember, when the pensive night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath her silver-sprinkled veil walks dreaming;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">When pleasure calls thee and thy heart beats high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">When tender joys through evening shades draw nigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Hark, from the woodland deeps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">A gentle whisper creeps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">Remember!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Remember, when the hand of fate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My life from thine forevermore has parted;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When sorrow, exile, and the weight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of lonely years have made me heavy-hearted;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Think of my loyal love, my last adieu;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Absence and time are naught, if we are true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Long as my heart shall beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">To thine it will repeat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">Remember!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Remember, when the cool, dark tomb</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Receives my heart into its quiet keeping,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some sweet flower begins to bloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above the grassy mound where I am sleeping;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Ah then, my face thou nevermore shalt see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But still my soul will linger close to thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And in the holy place of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">The litany of love recite,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">Remember!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>Freely rendered from the French of Alfred de Musset.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="two-songs-of-heine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Two Songs of Heine</h2>
			<section id="two-songs-of-heine-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title" xml:lang="de">“Ein Fichtenbaum”</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>A fir-tree standeth lonely</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a barren northern height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Asleep, while winter covers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His rest with robes of white.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In dreams, he sees a palm-tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the golden morning-land;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She droops alone and silent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In burning wastes of sand.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="two-songs-of-heine-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title" xml:lang="de">“Du Bist Wie Eine Blume”</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Fair art thou as a flower</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And innocent and shy:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I look on thee and sorrow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I grieve, I know not why.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I long to lay, in blessing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My hand upon thy brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pray that God may keep thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As fair and pure as now.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1872.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="in-memoriam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">"In Memoriam"</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The record of a faith sublime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And hope, through clouds, far-off discerned;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The incense of a love that burned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through pain and doubt defying Time:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The story of a soul at strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That learned at last to kiss the rod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And passed through sorrow up to God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From living to a higher life:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A light that gleams across the wave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of darkness, down the rolling years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Piercing the heavy mist of tears—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A rainbow shining o'er a grave.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="for-katrinas-window" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">For Katrina's Window</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This is the window's message,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">In silence, to the Queen:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thou hast a double kingdom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I am set between:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look out and see the glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">On hill and plain and sky:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look in and see the light of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That nevermore shall die!”</span>
			</p>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p xml:lang="fr">L’Envoi</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>
						<em>Window in the Queen's high tower,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>This shall be thy magic power!</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Shut the darkness and the doubt,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Shut the storm and conflict, out;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Wind and hail and snow and rain</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Dash against thee all in vain.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Let in nothing from the night,—</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Let in every ray of light!</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-prison-and-the-angel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Prison and the Angel</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Self is the only prison that can ever bind the soul;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love is the only angel who can bid the gates unroll;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when he comes to call thee, arise and follow fast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His way may lie through darkness, but it leads to light at last.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="santa-christina" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Santa Christina</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Saints are God's flowers, fragrant souls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That His own hand hath planted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not in some far-off heavenly place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or solitude enchanted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But here and there and everywhere,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In lonely field, or crowded town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God sees a flower when He looks down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some wear the lily's stainless white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And some the rose of passion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some the violet's heavenly blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But each in its own fashion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With silent bloom and soft perfume,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is praising Him who from above</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beholds each lifted face of love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One such I knew,—and had the grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To thank my God for knowing:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The beauty of her quiet life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was like a rose in blowing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So fair and sweet, so all-complete</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all unconscious, as a flower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That light and fragrance were her dower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No convent-garden held this rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Concealed like secret treasure;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No royal terrace guarded her</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For some sole monarch's pleasure.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She made her shrine, this saint of mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In a bright home where children played;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And there she wrought and there she prayed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In sunshine, when the days were glad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She had the art of keeping</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The clearest rays, to give again</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In days of rain and weeping;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her blessed heart could still impart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some portion of its secret grace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And charity shone in her face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In joy she grew from year to year;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sorrow made her sweeter;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every comfort, still more kind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And every loss, completer.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her children came to love her name,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Christina,”—'twas a lip's caress;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And when they called, they seemed to bless.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No more they call, for she is gone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Too far away to hear them;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet they often breathe her name</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As if she lingered near them;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They cannot reach her with love's speech,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But when they say “Christina” now</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'Tis like a prayer or like a vow:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A vow to keep her life alive</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In deeds of pure affection,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So that her love shall find in them</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A daily resurrection;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A constant prayer that they may wear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some touch of that supernal light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With which she blossoms in God's sight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="joy-and-duty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Joy and Duty</h2>
			<p>
				<span>“Joy is a Duty,”—so with golden lore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Hebrew rabbis taught in days of yore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And happy human hearts heard in their speech</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Almost the highest wisdom man can reach.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But one bright peak still rises far above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there the Master stands whose name is Love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saying to those whom weary tasks employ:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Life is divine when Duty is a Joy.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="love-and-light" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love and Light</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There are many kinds of love, as many kinds of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every kind of love makes a glory in the night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is love that stirs the heart, and love that gives it rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the love that leads life upward is the noblest and the best.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Peace</h2>
			<p>
				<span>With eager heart and will on fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I strove to win my great desire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Peace shall be mine,” I said; but life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grew bitter in the barren strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My soul was weary, and my pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was wounded deep; to Heaven I cried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“God grant me peace or I must die;”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dumb stars glittered no reply.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Broken at last, I bowed my head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgetting all myself, and said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Whatever comes, His will be done;”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in that moment peace was won.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="chant-of-the-northmen-at-the-thunder-oak" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Chant of the Northmen at the Thunder-Oak</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Thor, the Thunderer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mighty and merciless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spare us from smiting!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heave not thy hammer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Angry, against us;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plague not thy people.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take from our treasure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Richest of ransom.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silver we send thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jewels and javelins,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Goodliest garments,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All our possessions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Priceless, we proffer.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sheep will we slaughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Steeds will we sacrifice;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright blood shall bathe thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O tree of Thunder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life-floods shall lave thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strong wood of wonder.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mighty, have mercy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smite us no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spare us and save us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spare us, Thor! Thor!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>From "The Oak of Geismar."</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="chant-of-the-magi-at-the-fire-altar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Chant of the Magi at the Fire-Altar</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We worship the Spirit Divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">all wisdom and goodness possessing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surrounded by Holy Immortals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">the givers of bounty and blessing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We joy in the works of His hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His truth and His power confessing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We praise all the things that are pure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">for these are His only Creation;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thoughts that are true, and the words</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">and deeds that have won approbation;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These are supported by Him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">and for these we make adoration.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hear us, O Mazda! Thou livest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">in truth and in heavenly gladness;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cleanse us from falsehood, and keep us</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">from evil and bondage to badness;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pour out the light and the joy of Thy life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">on our darkness and sadness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shine on our gardens and fields,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shine on our working and weaving;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shine on the whole race of man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Believing and unbelieving;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shine on us now through the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shine on us now in Thy might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flame of our holy love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">and the song of our worship receiving.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>From "The Story of the Other Wise Man."</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="song-of-a-pilgrim-soul" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Song of a Pilgrim-Soul</h2>
			<p>
				<span>March on, my soul, nor like a laggard stay!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>March swiftly on. Yet err not from the way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where all the nobly wise of old have trod,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The path of faith, made by the sons of God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Follow the marks that they have set beside</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The narrow, cloud-swept track, to be thy guide:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Follow, and honour what the past has gained,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And forward still, that more may be attained.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Something to learn, and something to forget:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hold fast the good, and seek the better yet:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Press on, and prove the pilgrim-hope of youth:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Creeds are milestones on the road to Truth.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-babe-among-the-stars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Babe Among the Stars</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When I beheld the splendour of the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all the misty myriad of her stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forever swinging on their paths of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far out beyond our system's narrow bars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I marvelled that the glory of God's birth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had fallen only on this little earth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Infinite condescension, that could raise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The least to be most blessed. God can bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings praise.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This late-born infant of the sky shall sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A music sweeter than her sister spheres;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Incarnate love, while heaven in wonder hears.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-child-jesus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the Child Jesus</h2>
			<section id="to-the-child-jesus-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Nativity</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Could every time-worn heart but see Thee once again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A happy human child, among the homes of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The age of doubt would pass,—the vision of Thy face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would silently restore the childhood of the race.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="to-the-child-jesus-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Flight Into Egypt</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Thou wayfaring Jesus, a pilgrim and stranger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Exiled from heaven by love at thy birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exiled again from thy rest in the manger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A fugitive child 'mid the perils of earth,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cheer with thy fellowship all who are weary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wandering far from the land that they love;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Guide every heart that is homeless and dreary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Safe to its home in thy presence above.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="the-bargain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Bargain</h2>
			<p>
				<span>What shall I give for thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou Pearl of greatest price?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For all the treasures I possess</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would not suffice.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I give my store of gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It is but earthly dross:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But thou wilt make me rich, beyond</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All fear of loss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mine honours I resign;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They are but small at best:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou like a royal star wilt shine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon my breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My worldly joys I give,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The flowers with which I played;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy beauty, far more heavenly fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall never fade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dear Lord, is that enough?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Nay, not a thousandth part.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well, then, I have but one thing more:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Take Thou my heart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-masters-voice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Master's Voice</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When days are dark and nights are cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all the world seems going wrong;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When fears are fresh, and hopes grow old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And die because they've waited long;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When all is sad without, within,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I am plagued with doubt and sin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet have I comfort, and rejoice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If I can hear the Master's voice.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Come unto Me, thou child distressed;</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Come, find a refuge on My breast;</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Lay down thy burden, and have rest.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When clouds are thick, and winds are loud,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And angry waters rising fast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With many leaping waves that crowd</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To overwhelm my boat at last;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When all my chance of life seems lost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though far astray and tempest-tossed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet have I courage, and rejoice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If I can hear the Master's voice.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Be not afraid; 'tis I that stand,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>In every danger, near at hand.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>The winds are still at My command.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When earthly voices, once so dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have died in silence, one by one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till I am left to mourn them here</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With empty heart, and all alone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When sorrow from the gates of death</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breathes on my cheek her icy breath;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet have I peace, and can rejoice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If I but hear the Master's voice.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>A little while; wait patiently.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>A little while, and thou shalt be</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>With thy beloved, and with Me.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bitter-sweet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bitter-Sweet</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Just to give up, and trust</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">All to a Fate unknown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Plodding along life's road in the dust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Bounded by walls of stone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never to have a heart at peace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never to see when care will cease;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just to be still when sorrows fall—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is the bitterest lesson of all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Just to give up, and rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">All on a Love secure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Out of a world that's hard at the best,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Looking to heaven as sure;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ever to hope, through cloud and fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In darkest night, that the dawn is near;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just to wait at the Master's feet—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surely, now, the bitter is sweet.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-way" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Way</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Who seeks for heaven alone to save his soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May keep the path, but will not reach the goal;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While he who walks in love may wander far,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But God will bring him where the Blessed are.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-great-river" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Great River</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p xml:lang="it">“In la sua volontade è nostra pace.”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>O mighty river! strong, eternal Will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wherein the streams of human good and ill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are onward swept, conflicting, to the sea!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world is safe because it floats in Thee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mercy-for-armenia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mercy for Armenia</h2>
			<section id="mercy-for-armenia-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Turk's Way</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Stand back, ye messengers of mercy! Stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Far off, for I will save my troubled folk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In my own way. So the false Sultan spoke;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Europe, hearkening to his base command,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood still to see him heal his wounded land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through blinding snows of winter and through smoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of burning towns, she saw him deal the stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of cruel mercy that his hate had planned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto the prisoners and the sick he gave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">New tortures, horrible, without a name;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Unto the thirsty, blood to drink; a sword</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unto the hungry; with a robe of shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He clad the naked, making life abhorred;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saved by slaughter, and denied a grave.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="mercy-for-armenia-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">America's Way</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>But thou, my country, though no fault be thine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For that red horror far across the sea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though not a tortured wretch can point to thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And curse thee for the selfishness supine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of those great Powers that cowardly combine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To shield the Turk in his iniquity;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet, since thy hand is innocent and free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arise, and show the world the way divine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou canst not break the oppressor's iron rod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But thou canst help and comfort the oppressed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Thou canst not loose the captive's heavy chain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But thou canst bind his wounds and soothe his pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Armenia calls thee, Sovereign of the West,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To play the Good Samaritan for God.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1896.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-builders" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Builders</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>Ode for the Hundred and Fiftieth Anniversary of Princeton College</p>
					<p>October 21, 1896</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<section id="the-builders-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Into the dust of the making of man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spirit was breathed when his life began,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifting him up from his low estate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With masterful passion, the wish to create.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the dust of his making, man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fashioned his works as the ages ran;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fortress, and palace, and temple, and tower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filling the world with the proof of his power.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the dust that awaits him, man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Building the walls that his pride doth plan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dreams they will stand in the light of the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bearing his name till Time is done.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The monuments of mortals</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Are as the glory of the grass;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through Time's dim portals</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A voiceless, viewless wind doth pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The blossoms fall before it in a day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The forest monarchs year by year decay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And man's great buildings slowly fade away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">One after one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">They pay to that dumb breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The tribute of their death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">And are undone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The towers incline to dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The massive girders rust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The domes dissolve in air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The pillars that upbear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The lofty arches crumble, stone by stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While man the builder looks about him in despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all his works of pride and power are overthrown.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A Voice came from the sky:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Set thy desires more high.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy buildings fade away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because thou buildest clay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now make the fabric sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With stones that will endure!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hewn from the spiritual rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The immortal towers of the soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At Death's dissolving touch shall mock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And stand secure while æons roll.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-4">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">Well did the wise in heart rejoice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To hear the summons of that Voice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">And patiently begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">The builder's work within,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Houses not made with hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Nor founded on the sands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And thou, Reverèd Mother, at whose call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">We come to keep thy joyous festival,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And celebrate thy labours on the walls of Truth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through sevenscore years and ten of thine eternal youth—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">A master builder thou,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">And on thy shining brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Like Cybele, in fadeless light dost wear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">A diadem of turrets strong and fair.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-5">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I see thee standing in a lonely land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But late and hardly won from solitude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unpopulous and rude,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On that far western shore I see thee stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like some young goddess from a brighter strand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While in thine eyes a radiant thought is born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enkindling all thy beauty like the morn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sea-like the forest rolled, in waves of green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And few the lights that glimmered, leagues between.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High in the north, for fourscore years alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair Harvard's earliest beacon-tower had shone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Yale was lighted, and an answering ray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flashed from the meadows by New Haven Bay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But deeper spread the forest, and more dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where first Neshaminy received the spark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sacred learning to a woodland camp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Old Log College glowed with Tennant's lamp.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine, Alma Mater, was the larger sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That saw the future of that trembling light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thine the courage, thine the stronger will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That built its loftier home on Princeton Hill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“New light!” men cried, and murmured that it came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From an unsanctioned source with lawless flame;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It shone too free, for still the church and school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must only shine according to their rule.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Princeton answered, in her nobler mood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“God made the light, and all the light is good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is no war between the old and new;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The conflict lies between the false and true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stars, that high in heaven their courses run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In glory differ, but their light is one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beacons, gleaming o'er the sea of life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are rivals but in radiance, not in strife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shine on, ye sister-towers, across the night!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I too will build a lasting house of light.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-6">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Brave was that word of faith and bravely was it kept:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With never-wearying zeal that faltered not, nor slept,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our Alma Mater toiled, and while she firmly laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The deep foundation-walls, at all her toil she prayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And men who loved the truth because it made them free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And clearly saw the twofold Word of God agree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reading from Nature's book and from the Bible's page</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the same inward ray that grows from age to age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were built like living stones that beacon to uplift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drawing light from heaven gave to the world the gift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ever, while they searched the secrets of the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or traced the stream of life through mystery to its birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ever, while they taught the lightning-flash to bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The messages of man in silence through the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell from their home of light one false, perfidious ray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To blind the trusting heart, or lead the life astray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But still, while knowledge grew more luminous and broad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It lit the path of faith and showed the way to God.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-7">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Yet not for peace alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Labour the builders.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Work that in peace has grown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swiftly is overthrown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When in the darkening skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Storm-clouds of wrath arise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through the cannon's crash,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>War's deadly lightning-flash</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Smites and bewilders.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ramparts of strength must frown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round every placid town</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And city splendid;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All that our fathers wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With true prophetic thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Must be defended!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-8">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">But who could raise protecting walls for thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou young, defenceless land of liberty?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or who could build a fortress strong enough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or stretch a mighty bulwark long enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">To hold thy far-extended coast</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Against the overweening host</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That took the open path across the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">And like a tempest poured</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Their desolating horde,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To quench thy dawning light in gloom of tyranny?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet not unguarded thou wert found</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When on thy shore with sullen sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The blaring trumpets of an unjust king</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Proclaimed invasion. From the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In freedom's darkest hour, there seemed to spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unconquerable walls for her defence;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not trembling, like those battlements of stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That fell when Joshua's horns were blown;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But firm and stark the living rampart rose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To meet the onset of imperious foes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a long line of brave, unyielding men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This was thy fortress, well-defended land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And on these walls, the patient, building hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Princeton laboured with the force of ten.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her sons were foremost in the furious fight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her sons were firmest to uphold the right</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In council-chambers of the new-born State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And prove that he who would be free must first be great</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In heart, and high in thought, and strong</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In purpose not to do or suffer wrong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Such were the men, impregnable to fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose souls were framed and fashioned here;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when war shook the land with threatening shock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The men of Princeton stood like muniments of rock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Nor has the breath of Time</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Dissolved that proud array</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of never-broken strength:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For though the rocks decay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And all the iron bands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of earthly strongholds are unloosed at length,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And buried deep in gray oblivion's sands;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The work that heroes' hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wrought in the light of freedom's natal day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Shall never fade away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">But lifts itself, sublime</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Into a lucid sphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For ever calm and clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Preserving in the memory of the fathers' deed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A never-failing fortress for their children's need.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There we confirm our hearts to-day, and read</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On many a stone the signature of fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The builder's mark, our Alma Mater's name.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-9">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Bear with us then a moment, while we turn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From all the present splendours of this place—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The lofty towers that like a dream have grown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where once old Nassau Hall stood all alone—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Back to that ancient time, with hearts that burn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In filial gratitude, to trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The glory of our mother's best degree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In that “high son of Liberty,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Who like a granite block,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Riven from Scotland's rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stood loyal here to keep Columbia free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Born far away beyond the ocean's tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He found his fatherland upon this side;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every drop of ardent blood that ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through his great heart, was true American.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He held no fealty to a distant throne,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But made his new-found country's cause his own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In peril and distress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In toil and weariness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">When darkness overcast her</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">With shadows of disaster,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And voices of confusion</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Proclaimed her hope delusion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Robed in his preacher's gown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">He dared the danger down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like some old prophet chanting an inspired rune</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In freedom's councils rang the voice of Witherspoon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">And thou, my country, write it on thy heart:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">
						<em>Thy sons are they who nobly take thy part;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">
						<em>Who dedicates his manhood at thy shrine,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">
						<em>Wherever born, is born a son of thine.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">
						<em>Foreign in name, but not in soul, they come</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">
						<em>To find in thee their long desired home;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Lovers of liberty and haters of disorder,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>They shall be built in strength along thy border.</em>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Dream not thy future foes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Will all be foreign-born!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Turn thy clear look of scorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Upon thy children who oppose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their passions wild and policies of shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wreck the righteous splendour of thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Untaught and overconfident they rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With folly on their lips, and envy in their eyes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strong to destroy, but powerless to create,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ignorant of all that made our fathers great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their hands would take away thy golden crown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shake the pillars of thy freedom down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Anarchy's ocean, dark and desolate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O should that storm descend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What fortress shall defend</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The land our fathers wrought for,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The liberties they fought for?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What bulwark shall secure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her shrines of law, and keep her founts of justice pure?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Then, ah then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As in the olden days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The builders must upraise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A rampart of indomitable men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And once again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear Mother, if thy heart and hand be true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There will be building work for thee to do;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yea, more than once again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou shalt win lasting praise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And never-dying honour shall be thine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For setting many stones in that illustrious line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stand unshaken in the swirling strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And guard their country's honour as her life.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-10">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Softly, my harp, and let me lay the touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of silence on these rudely clanging strings;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For he who sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even of noble conflicts overmuch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loses the inward sense of better things;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he who makes a boast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of knowledge, darkens that which counts the most,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The insight of a wise humility</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That reverently adores what none can see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The glory of our life below</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comes not from what we do, or what we know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But dwells forevermore in what we are.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">There is an architecture grander far</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Than all the fortresses of war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">More inextinguishably bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Than learning's lonely towers of light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Framing its walls of faith and hope and love</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In souls of men, it lifts above</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The frailty of our earthly home</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">An everlasting dome;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The sanctuary of the human host,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The living temple of the Holy Ghost.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-11">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If music led the builders long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When Arthur planned the halls of Camelot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made the royal city grow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fair as a flower in that forsaken spot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What sweeter music shall we bring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To weave a harmony divine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of prayer and holy thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the labours of this loftier shrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">This consecrated hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where through so many a year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our Alma Mater's hand hath wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With toil serene and still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And heavenly hope, to rear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eternal dwellings for the Only King?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Here let no martial trumpets blow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor instruments of pride proclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loud exultant notes of fame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But let the chords be clear and low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And let the anthem deeper grow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let it move more solemnly and slow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For only such an ode</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Can seal the harmony</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of that deep masonry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein the soul of man is framed for God's abode.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-builders-12">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Thou whose boundless love bestows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The joy of earth, the hope of Heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And whose unchartered mercy flows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O'er all the blessings Thou hast given;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou by whose light alone we see;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by whose truth our souls set free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are made imperishably strong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear Thou the solemn music of our song.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Grant us the knowledge that we need</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To solve the questions of the mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And light our candle while we read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To keep our hearts from going blind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enlarge our vision to behold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wonders Thou hast wrought of old;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reveal thyself in every law,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gild the towers of truth with holy awe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Be Thou our strength if war's wild gust</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall rage around us, loud and fierce;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confirm our souls and let our trust</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be like a shield that none can pierce;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Renew the courage that prevails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The steady faith that never fails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make us stand in every fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Firm as a fortress to defend the right.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O God, control us as Thou wilt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And guide the labour of our hand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let all our work be surely built</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As Thou, the architect, hast planned;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But whatso'er thy power shall make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of these frail lives, do not forsake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy dwelling: let thy presence rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ever in the temple of our breast.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="the-toiling-of-felix" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">The Toiling of Felix</h2>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">A Legend on a New Saying of Jesus</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">In the rubbish heaps of the ancient city of Oxyrhynchus, near the River Nile, a party of English explorers, in the winter of 1897, discovered a fragment of a papyrus book, written in the second or third century, and hitherto unknown. This single leaf contained parts of seven short sentences of Christ, each introduced by the words, “Jesus says.” It is to the fifth of these Sayings of Jesus that the following poem refers.</p>
			</header>
			<section id="the-toiling-of-felix-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Prelude</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Hear a word that Jesus spake</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Nineteen hundred years ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Where the crimson lilies blow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Round the blue Tiberian lake:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">There the bread of life He brake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Through the fields of harvest walking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">With His lowly comrades, talking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of the secret thoughts that feed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Weary souls in time of need.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Art thou hungry? Come and take;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Hear the word that Jesus spake!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis the sacrament of labour, bread and wine divinely blest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Friendship's food and sweet refreshment, strength and courage, joy and rest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">But this word the Master said</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Long ago and far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Silent and forgotten lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Buried with the silent dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Where the sands of Egypt spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Sea-like, tawny billows heaping</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Over ancient cities sleeping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">While the River Nile between</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Rolls its summer flood of green</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Rolls its autumn flood of red:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">There the word the Master said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Written on a frail papyrus, wrinkled, scorched by fire, and torn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hidden by God's hand was waiting for its resurrection morn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Now at last the buried word</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">By the delving spade is found,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Sleeping in the quiet ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Now the call of life is heard:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Rise again, and like a bird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Fly abroad on wings of gladness</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Through the darkness and the sadness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of the toiling age, and sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Sweeter than the voice of Spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Till the hearts of men are stirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">By the music of the word,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gospel for the heavy-laden, answer to the labourer's cry:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<em>Raise the stone, and thou shall find me; cleave the wood and there am I.</em>”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-toiling-of-felix-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Legend</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Brother-men who look for Jesus, long to see Him close and clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hearken to the tale of Felix, how he found the Master near.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Born in Egypt, 'neath the shadow of the crumbling gods of night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He forsook the ancient darkness, turned his young heart toward the Light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeking Christ, in vain he waited for the vision of the Lord;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vainly pondered many volumes where the creeds of men were stored;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Vainly shut himself in silence, keeping vigil night and day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vainly haunted shrines and churches where the Christians came to pray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One by one he dropped the duties of the common life of care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broke the human ties that bound him, laid his spirit waste and bare,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hoping that the Lord would enter that deserted dwelling-place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reward the loss of all things with the vision of His face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Still the blessed vision tarried; still the light was unrevealed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still the Master, dim and distant, kept His countenance concealed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fainter grew the hope of finding, wearier grew the fruitless quest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prayer and penitence and fasting gave no comfort, brought no rest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lingering in the darkened temple, ere the lamp of faith went out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Felix knelt before the altar, lonely, sad, and full of doubt.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Hear me, O my Lord and Master,” from the altar-step he cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Let my one desire be granted, let my hope be satisfied!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Only once I long to see Thee, in the fulness of Thy grace:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Break the clouds that now enfold Thee, with the sunrise of Thy face!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“All that men desire and treasure have I counted loss for Thee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every hope have I forsaken, save this one, my Lord to see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Loosed the sacred bands of friendship, solitary stands my heart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou shalt be my sole companion when I see Thee as Thou art.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“From Thy distant throne in glory, flash upon my inward sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fill the midnight of my spirit with the splendour of Thy light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“All Thine other gifts and blessings, common mercies, I disown;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Separated from my brothers, I would see Thy face alone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I have watched and I have waited as one waiteth for the morn:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still the veil is never lifted, still Thou leavest me forlorn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Now I seek Thee in the desert, where the holy hermits dwell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There, beside the saint Serapion, I will find a lonely cell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“There at last Thou wilt be gracious; there Thy presence, long-concealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the solitude and silence to my heart shall be revealed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Thou wilt come, at dawn or twilight, o'er the rolling waves of sand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shall see Thee close beside me, I shall touch Thy pierced hand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Lo, Thy pilgrim kneels before Thee; bless my journey with a word;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell me now that if I follow, I shall find Thee, O my Lord!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Felix listened: through the darkness, like a murmur of the wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came a gentle sound of stillness: “Never faint, and thou shalt find.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long and toilsome was his journey through the heavy land of heat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Egypt's blazing sun above him, blistering sand beneath his feet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Patiently he plodded onward, from the pathway never erred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till he reached the river-headland called the Mountain of the Bird.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There the tribes of air assemble, once a year, their noisy flock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, departing, leave a sentinel perched upon the highest rock.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Far away, on joyful pinions, over land and sea they fly;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the watcher on the summit lonely stands against the sky.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There the eremite Serapion in a cave had made his bed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There the faithful bands of pilgrims sought his blessing, brought him bread.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Month by month, in deep seclusion, hidden in the rocky cleft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dwelt the hermit, fasting, praying; once a year the cave he left.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On that day a happy pilgrim, chosen out of all the band,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Won a special sign of favour from the holy hermit's hand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Underneath the narrow window, at the doorway closely sealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the afterglow of sunset deepened round him, Felix kneeled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Man of God, of men most holy, thou whose gifts cannot be priced!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grant me thy most precious guerdon; tell me how to find the Christ.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Breathless, Felix bent and listened, but no answering voice he heard;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Darkness folded, dumb and deathlike, round the Mountain of the Bird.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he said, “The saint is silent; he would teach my soul to wait:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will tarry here in patience, like a beggar at his gate.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Near the dwelling of the hermit Felix found a rude abode,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a shallow tomb deserted, close beside the pilgrim-road.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So the faithful pilgrims saw him waiting there without complaint,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soon they learned to call him holy, fed him as they fed the saint.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Day by day he watched the sunrise flood the distant plain with gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the River Nile beneath him, silvery coiling, sea-ward rolled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Night by night he saw the planets range their glittering court on high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw the moon, with queenly motion, mount her throne and rule the sky.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Morn advanced and midnight fled, in visionary pomp attired;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never morn and never midnight brought the vision long-desired.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now at last the day is dawning when Serapion makes his gift;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Felix kneels before the threshold, hardly dares his eyes to lift.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now the cavern door uncloses, now the saint above him stands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blesses him without a word, and leaves a token in his hands.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis the guerdon of thy waiting! Look, thou happy pilgrim, look!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing but a tattered fragment of an old papyrus book.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Read! perchance the clue to guide thee hidden in the words may lie:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<em>Raise the stone, and thou shalt find me; cleave the wood, and there am I.</em>”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Can it be the mighty Master spake such simple words as these?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can it be that men must seek Him at their toil 'mid rocks and trees?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Disappointed, heavy-hearted, from the Mountain of the Bird</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Felix mournfully descended, questioning the Master's word.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not for him a sacred dwelling, far above the haunts of men:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He must turn his footsteps backward to the common life again.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From a quarry near the river, hollowed out amid the hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose the clattering voice of labour, clanking hammers, clinking drills.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dust, and noise, and hot confusion made a Babel of the spot:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There, among the lowliest workers, Felix sought and found his lot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now he swung the ponderous mallet, smote the iron in the rock—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Muscles quivering, tingling, throbbing—blow on blow and shock on shock;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now he drove the willow wedges, wet them till they swelled and split,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their silent strength, the fragment, sent it thundering down the pit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now the groaning tackle raised it; now the rollers made it slide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Harnessed men, like beasts of burden, drew it to the river-side.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now the palm-trees must be riven, massive timbers hewn and dressed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rafts to bear the stones in safety on the rushing river's breast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Axe and auger, saw and chisel, wrought the will of man in wood:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Mid the many-handed labour Felix toiled, and found it good.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Every day the blood ran fleeter through his limbs and round his heart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every night he slept the sweeter, knowing he had done his part.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dreams of solitary saintship faded from him; but, instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came a sense of daily comfort in the toil for daily bread.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Far away, across the river, gleamed the white walls of the town</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whither all the stones and timbers day by day were floated down.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There the workman saw his labour taking form and bearing fruit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a tree with splendid branches rising from a humble root.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Looking at the distant city, temples, houses, domes, and towers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Felix cried in exultation: “All that mighty work is ours.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Every toiler in the quarry, every builder on the shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every chopper in the palm-grove, every raftsman at the oar,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Hewing wood and drawing water, splitting stones and cleaving sod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the dusty ranks of labour, in the regiment of God,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“March together toward His triumph, do the task His hands prepare:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Honest toil is holy service; faithful work is praise and prayer.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>While he bore the heat and burden Felix felt the sense of rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flowing softly like a fountain, deep within his weary breast;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Felt the brotherhood of labour, rising round him like a tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Overflow his heart and join him to the workers at his side.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oft he cheered them with his singing at the breaking of the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Told them tales of Christ at noonday, taught them words of prayer at night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once he bent above a comrade fainting in the mid-day heat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sheltered him with woven palm-leaves, gave him water, cool and sweet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then it seemed, for one swift moment, secret radiance filled the place;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Underneath the green palm-branches flashed a look of Jesus' face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once again, a raftsman, slipping, plunged beneath the stream and sank;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swiftly Felix leaped to rescue, caught him, drew him toward the bank—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Battling with the cruel river, using all his strength to save—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did he dream? or was there One beside him walking on the wave?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now at last the work was ended, grove deserted, quarry stilled;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Felix journeyed to the city that his hands had helped to build.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the darkness of the temple, at the closing hour of day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As of old he sought the altar, as of old he knelt to pray:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Hear me, O Thou hidden Master! Thou hast sent a word to me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is written—Thy commandment—I have kept it faithfully.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Thou hast bid me leave the visions of the solitary life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bear my part in human labour, take my share in human strife.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I have done Thy bidding, Master; raised the rock and felled the tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swung the axe and plied the hammer, working every day for Thee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Once it seemed I saw Thy presence through the bending palm-leaves gleam;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once upon the flowing water—Nay, I know not; 'twas a dream!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“This I know: Thou hast been near me: more than this I dare not ask.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though I see Thee not, I love Thee. Let me do Thy humblest task!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through the dimness of the temple slowly dawned a mystic light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There the Master stood in glory, manifest to mortal sight:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hands that bore the mark of labour, brow that bore the print of care;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hands of power, divinely tender; brow of light, divinely fair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Hearken, good and faithful servant, true disciple, loyal friend!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou hast followed me and found me; I will keep thee to the end.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Well I know thy toil and trouble; often weary, fainting, worn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have lived the life of labour, heavy burdens I have borne.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Never in a prince's palace have I slept on golden bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never in a hermit's cavern have I eaten unearned bread.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Born within a lowly stable, where the cattle round me stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trained a carpenter in Nazareth, I have toiled, and found it good.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“They who tread the path of labour follow where my feet have trod;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They who work without complaining do the holy will of God.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Where the many toil together, there am I among my own;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the tired workman sleepeth, there am I with him alone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I, the peace that passeth knowledge, dwell amid the daily strife;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, the bread of heaven, am broken in the sacrament of life.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Every task, however simple, sets the soul that does it free;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every deed of love and mercy, done to man, is done to me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Thou hast learned the open secret; thou hast come to me for rest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With thy burden, in thy labour, thou art Felix, doubly blest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Nevermore thou needest seek me; I am with thee everywhere;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>Raise the stone, and thou shall find me; cleave the wood, and I am there.</em>”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-toiling-of-felix-3">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Envoy</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The legend of Felix is ended, the toiling of Felix is done;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Master has paid him his wages, the goal of his journey is won;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He rests, but he never is idle; a thousand years pass like a day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the glad surprise of that Paradise where work is sweeter than play.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet often the King of that country comes out from His tireless host,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And walks in this world of the weary as if He loved it the most;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For here in the dusty confusion, with eyes that are heavy and dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He meets again the labouring men who are looking and longing for Him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He cancels the curse of Eden, and brings them a blessing instead:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blessed are they that labour, for Jesus partakes of their bread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He puts His hand to their burdens, He enters their homes at night:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who does his best shall have as a guest the Master of life and light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And courage will come with His presence, and patience return at His touch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And manifold sins be forgiven to those who love Him much;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cries of envy and anger will change to the songs of cheer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The toiling age will forget its rage when the Prince of Peace draws near.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This is the gospel of labour, ring it, ye bells of the kirk!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Lord of Love came down from above, to live with the men who work.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is the rose that He planted, here in the thorn-curst soil:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heaven is blest with perfect rest, but the blessing of Earth is toil.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1898.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="vera" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Vera</h2>
			<section id="vera-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A silent world,—yet full of vital joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uttered in rhythmic movements manifold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sunbeams flashing on the face of things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like sudden smilings of divine delight,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A world of many sorrows too, revealed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fading flowers and withering leaves and dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tear-laden clouds, and tearless, clinging mists</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hung above the earth too sad to weep,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A world of fluent change, and changeless flow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And infinite suggestion of new thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reflected in the crystal of the heart,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A world of many meanings but no words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>A silent world was Vera's home.</span>
						<span>For her</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The inner doors of sound were closely sealed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The outer portals, delicate as shells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suffused with faintest rose of far-off morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like underglow of daybreak in the sea,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ear-gates of the garden of her soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shaded by drooping tendrils of brown hair,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waited in vain for messengers to pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thread the labyrinth with flying feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swiftly knock upon the inmost door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And enter in, and speak the mystic word.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But through those gates no message ever came.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only with eyes did she behold and see,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With eyes as luminous and bright and brown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As waters of a woodland river,—eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That questioned so they almost seemed to speak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And answered so they almost seemed to hear,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only with wondering eyes did she behold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The silent splendour of a living world.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She saw the great wind ranging freely down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interminable archways of the wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While tossing boughs and bending tree-tops hailed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His coming: but no sea-toned voice of pines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No roaring of the oaks, no silvery song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of poplars or of birches, followed him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He passed; they waved their arms and clapped their hands;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>There was no sound.</span>
						<span>The torrents from the hills</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaped down their rocky pathways, like wild steeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breaking the yoke and shaking manes of foam.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lowland brooks coiled smoothly through the fields,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And softly spread themselves in glistening lakes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose ripples merrily danced among the reeds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The standing waves that ever keep their place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the swift rapids, curled upon themselves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seemed about to break and never broke;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the wandering waves that fill the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came buffeting in along the stony shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or plunging in along the level sands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or creeping in along the winding creeks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And inlets. Yet from all the ceaseless flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turmoil of the restless element</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came neither song of joy nor sob of grief;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For there were many waters, but no voice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Silent the actors all on Nature's stage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Performed their parts before her watchful eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coming and going, making war and love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Working and playing, all without a sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The oxen drew their load with swaying necks;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cows came sauntering home along the lane;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nodding sheep were led from field to fold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mute obedience. Down the woodland track</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hounds with panting sides and lolling tongues</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pursued their flying prey in noiseless haste.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The birds, the most alive of living things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mated, and built their nests, and reared their young,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swam the flood of air like tiny ships</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rising and falling over unseen waves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, gathering in great navies, bore away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To North or South, without a note of song.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All these were Vera's playmates; and she loved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To watch them, wondering oftentimes how well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They knew their parts, and how the drama moved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So swiftly, smoothly on from scene to scene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without confusion. But she sometimes dreamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There must be something hidden in the play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unknown to her, an utterance of life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More clear than action and more deep than looks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this she felt most deeply when she watched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her human comrades and the throngs of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who met and parted oft with moving lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That had a meaning more than she could see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She saw a lover bend above a maid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With moving lips; and though he touched her not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sudden rose of joy bloomed in her face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She saw a hater stand before his foe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And move his lips; whereat the other shrank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if he had been smitten on the mouth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She saw the regiments of toiling men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marshalled in ranks and led by moving lips.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And once she saw a sight more strange than all:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A crowd of people sitting charmed and still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around a little company of men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who touched their hands in measured, rhythmic time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To curious instruments; a woman stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among them, with bright eyes and heaving breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lifted up her face and moved her lips.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Vera wondered at the idle play,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when she looked around, she saw the glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of deep delight on every face, as if</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some visitor from a celestial world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had brought glad tidings. But to her alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No angel entered, for the choir of sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was vacant in the temple of her soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And worship lacked her golden crown of song.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So when by vision baffled and perplexed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She saw that all the world could not be seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knew she could not know the whole of life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless a hidden gate should be unsealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She felt imprisoned. In her heart there grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bitter creeping plant of discontent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The plant that only grows in prison soil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose root is hunger and whose fruit is pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The springs of still delight and tranquil joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were drained as dry as desert dust to feed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That never-flowering vine, whose tendrils clung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With strangling touch around the bloom of life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made it wither. Vera could not rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within the limits of her silent world;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along its dumb and desolate paths she roamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A captive, looking sadly for escape.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now in those distant days, and in that land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remote, there lived a Master wonderful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knew the secret of all life, and could,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gentle touches and with potent words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Open all gates that ever had been sealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loose all prisoners whom Fate had bound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obscure he dwelt, not in the wilderness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But in a hut among the throngs of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Concealed by meekness and simplicity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ever as he walked the city streets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or sat in quietude beside the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or trod the hillsides and the harvest fields,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The multitude passed by and knew him not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there were some who knew, and turned to him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For help; and unto all who asked, he gave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus Vera came, and found him in the field,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knew him by the pity in his face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She knelt to him and held him by one hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And laid the other hand upon her lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mute entreaty. Then she lifted up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coils of hair that hung about her neck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bared the beauty of the gates of sound,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those virgin gates through which no voice had passed,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She made them bare before the Master's sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And looked into the kindness of his face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With eyes that spoke of all her prisoned pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And told her great desire without a word.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Master waited long in silent thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As one reluctant to bestow a gift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not for the sake of holding back the thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entreated, but because he surely knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of something better that he fain would give</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If only she would ask it. Then he stooped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Vera, smiling, touched her ears and spoke:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Open, fair gates, and you, reluctant doors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within the ivory labyrinth of the ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let fall the bar of silence and unfold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enter, you voices of all living things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enter the garden sealed,—but softly, slowly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not with a noise confused and broken tumult,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come in an order sweet as I command you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bring the double gift of speech and hearing.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Vera began to hear. At first the wind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breathed a low prelude of the birth of sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if an organ far away were touched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By unseen fingers; then the little stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hurried down the hillside, swept the harp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of music into merry, tinkling notes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the lark that poised above her head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On wings a-quiver, overflowed the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With showers of song; and one by one the tones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all things living, in an order sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without confusion and with deepening power,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entered the garden sealed. And last of all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Master's voice, the human voice divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passed through the gates and called her by her name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Vera heard.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="vera-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i7">What rapture of new life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must come to one for whom a silent world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is suddenly made vocal, and whose heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the same magic is awaked at once,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without the learner's toil and long delay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of a night of dumbly moving dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into a day that overflows with music!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This joy was Vera's; and to her it seemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if a new creative morn had risen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the earth, and after the full week</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When living things unfolded silently,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And after the long, quiet Sabbath day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all was still, another day had dawned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through the calm expectancy of heaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A secret voice had said, “Let all things speak.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world responded with an instant joy;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the unseen avenues of sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were thronged with varying forms of viewless life.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To every living thing a voice was given</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinct and personal. The forest trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were not more varied in their shades of green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than in their tones of speech; and every bird</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That nested in their branches had a song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unknown to other birds and all his own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The waters spoke a hundred dialects</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of one great language; now with pattering fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of raindrops on the glistening leaves, and now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With steady roar of rivers rushing down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To meet the sea, and now with rhythmic throb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And measured tumult of tempestuous waves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now with lingering lisp of creeping tides,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The manifold discourse of many waters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But most of all the human voice was full</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of infinite variety, and ranged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the scale of life's experience</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With changing tones, and notes both sweet and sad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All fitted to express some unseen thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some vital motion of the hidden heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Vera listened with her new-born sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all the messengers that passed the gates,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In measureless delight and utter trust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believing that they brought a true report</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From every living thing of its true life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hoping that at last they would make clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mystery and the meaning of the world.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But soon there came a trouble in her joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A note discordant that dissolved the chord</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And broke the bliss of hearing into pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not from the harsher sounds and voices wild</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of anger and of anguish, that reveal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret strife in nature, and confess</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The touch of sorrow on the heart of life,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From these her trouble came not. For in these,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>However sad, she felt the note of truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And truth, though sad, is always musical.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The raging of the tempest-ridden sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crash of thunder, and the hollow moan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of winds complaining round the mountain-crags,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shrill and quavering cry of birds of prey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fiercer roar of conflict-loving beasts,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All these wild sounds are potent in their place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within life's mighty symphony; the charm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of truth attunes them, and the hearing ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finds pleasure in their rude sincerity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even the broken and tumultuous noise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That rises from great cities, where the heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of human toil is beating heavily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With ceaseless murmurs of the labouring pulse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is not a discord; for it speaks to life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of life unfeigned, and full of hopes and fears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And touched through all the trouble of its notes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With something real and therefore glorious.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One voice alone of all that sound on earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is hateful to the soul, and full of pain,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voice of falsehood. So when Vera heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This mocking voice, and knew that it was false;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When first she learned that human lips can speak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thing that is not, and betray the ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of simple trust with treachery of words;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The joy of hearing withered in her heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For now she felt that faithless messengers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could pass the open and unguarded gates</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sound, and bring a message all untrue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or half a truth that makes the deadliest lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or idle babble, neither false nor true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But hollow to the heart, and meaningless.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She heard the flattering voices of deceit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mask the hidden purposes of men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fair attire of favourable words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hide the evil in the guise of good:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voices vain and decorous and smooth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That fill the world with empty-hearted talk;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The foolish voices, wandering and confused,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That never clearly speak the thing they would,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ramble blindly round their true intent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tangle sense in hopeless coils of sound,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All these she heard, and with a deep mistrust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Began to doubt the value of her gift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seemed as if the world, the living world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sincere, and vast, and real, were still concealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she, within the prison of her soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still waiting silently to hear the voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of perfect knowledge and of perfect peace.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So with the burden of her discontent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She turned to seek the Master once again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found him sitting in the market-place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half-hidden in the shadow of a porch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>Alone among the careless crowd.</span>
						<span>She spoke:</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Thy gift was great, dear Master, and my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has thanked thee many times because I hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I have learned that hearing is not all;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For underneath the speech of men, there flows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another current of their hidden thoughts;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind the mask of language I perceive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>The eyes of things unsaid.</span>
						<span>Touch me again,</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Master, with thy liberating hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And free me from the bondage of deceit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Open another gate, and let me hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret thoughts and purposes of men;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For only thus my heart will be at rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only thus, at last, I shall perceive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mystery and the meaning of the world.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Master's face was turned aside from her;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyes looked far away, as if he saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something beyond her sight; and yet she knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he was listening; for her pleading voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No sooner ceased than he put forth his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To touch her brow, and very gently spoke:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Thou seekest for thyself a wondrous gift,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The opening of the second gate, a gift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That many wise men have desired in vain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But some have found it,—whether well or ill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For their own peace, they have attained the power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear unspoken thoughts of other men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou hast begged this gift? Thou shalt receive,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not knowing what thou seekest,—it is thine:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The second gate is open! Thou shalt hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All that men think and feel within their hearts:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy prayer is granted, daughter, go thy way!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if thou findest sorrow on this path,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come back again,—there is a path to peace.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="vera-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beyond our power of vision, poets say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is another world of forms unseen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet visible to purer eyes than ours.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if the crystal of our sight were clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We should behold the mountain-slopes of cloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moving meadows of the untilled sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The groves of twilight and the dales of dawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every wide and lonely field of air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More populous than cities, crowded close</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With living creatures of all shapes and hues.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if that sight were ours, the things that now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Engage our eyes would seem but dull and dim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beside the wonders of our new-found world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we should be amazed and overwhelmed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not knowing how to use the plenitude</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>Of vision.</span>
						<span>So in Vera's soul, at first,</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The opening of the second gate of sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let in confusion like a whirling flood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The murmur of a myriad-throated mob;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trampling of an army through a place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where echoes hide; the sudden, whistling flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an innumerable flock of birds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the highway of the midnight sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The many-whispered rustling of the reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the passing feet of all the winds;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The long-drawn, inarticulate, wailing cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of million-pebbled beaches when the lash</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of stormy waves is drawn across their back,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All these were less bewildering than to hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What now she heard at once: the tangled sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all that moves within the minds of men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For now there was no measured flow of words</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To mark the time; nor any interval</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of silence to repose the listening ear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But through the dead of night, and through the calm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of weary noon-tide, through the solemn hush</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That fills the temple in the pause of praise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through the breathless awe in rooms of death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She heard the ceaseless motion and the stir</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of never-silent hearts, that fill the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With interwoven thoughts of good and ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mingled music of delight and grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With songs of love, and bitter cries of hate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With hymns of faith, and dirges of despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And murmurs deeper and more vague than all,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thoughts that are born and die without a name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or rather, never die, but haunt the soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sad persistence, till a name is given.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These Vera heard, at first with mind perplexed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And half-benumbed by the disordered sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But soon a clearer sense began to pierce</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cloudy turmoil with discerning power.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She learned to know the tones of human thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As plainly as she knew the tones of speech.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She could divide the evil from the good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interpreting the language of the mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tracing every feeling like a thread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within the mystic web the passions weave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From heart to heart around the living world.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when at last the Master's second gift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was perfected within her, and she heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And understood the secret thoughts of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sadness fell upon her, and the load</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of insupportable knowledge pressed her down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With weary wishes to know more, or less.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all she knew was like a broken word</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inscribed upon the fragment of a ring;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all she heard was like a broken strain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Preluding music that is never played.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then she remembered in her sad unrest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Master's parting word,—“a path to peace,”—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turned again to seek him with her grief.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She found him in a hollow of the hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beside a little spring that issued forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the rocks and filled a mossy cup</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With never-failing water. There he sat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With waiting looks that welcomed her afar.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I know that thou hast heard, my child,” he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“For all the wonder of the world of sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is written in thy face. But hast thou heard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the many voices, one of peace?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And is thy heart that hears the secret thoughts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hidden wishes and desires of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Content with hearing? Art thou satisfied?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Nay, Master,” she replied, “thou knowest well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I am not at rest, nor have I heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voice of perfect peace; but what I hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brings me disquiet and a troubled mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The evil voices in the souls of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Voices of rage and cruelty and fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have not dismayed me; for I have believed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voices of the good, the kind, the true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are more in number and excel in strength.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is more love than hate, more hope than fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the deep throbbing of the human heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But while I listen to the troubled sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One thing torments me, and destroys my rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And presses me with dull, unceasing pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For out of all the minds of all mankind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There rises evermore a questioning voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That asks the meaning of this mighty world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And finds no answer,—asks, and asks again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With patient pleading or with wild complaint,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But wakens no response, except the sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of other questions, wandering to and fro,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From other souls in doubt. And so this voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Persists above all others that I hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And binds them up together into one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until the mingled murmur of the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sounds through the inner temple of my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like an eternal question, vainly asked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By every human soul that thinks and feels.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is the heaviness that weighs me down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this the pain that will not let me rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therefore, dear Master, shut the gates again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let me live in silence as before!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or else,—and if there is indeed a gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unopened yet, through which I might receive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An answer in the voice of perfect peace—”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She ceased; and in her upward faltering tone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>The question echoed.</span>
						<span>Then the Master said:</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“There is another gate, not yet unclosed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For through the outer portal of the ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only the outer voice of things may pass;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through the middle doorway of the mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only the half-formed voice of human thoughts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uncertain and perplexed with endless doubt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But through the inmost gate the spirit hears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voice of that great Spirit who is Life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the tones of living things He breathes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A deeper tone than ever ear hath heard;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And underneath the troubled thoughts of men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thinks forever, and His thought is peace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold, I touch thee once again, my child:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The third and last of those three hidden gates</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That closed around thy soul and shut thee in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is open now, and thou shalt truly hear.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Vera heard. The spiritual gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was opened softly as a full-blown flower</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unfolds its heart to welcome in the dawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on her listening face there shone a light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of still amazement and completed joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>In the full gift of hearing.</span>
						<span>What she heard</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cannot tell; nor could she ever tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In words; because all human words are vain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is no speech nor language, to express</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret messages of God, that make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perpetual music in the hearing heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Below the voice of waters, and above</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wandering voice of winds, and underneath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The song of birds, and all the varying tones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of living things that fill the world with sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God spoke to her, and what she heard was peace.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So when the Master questioned, “Dost thou hear?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She answered, “Yea, at last I hear.” And then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He asked her once again, “What hearest thou?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What means the voice of Life?” She answered, “Love!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For love is life, and they who do not love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are not alive. But every soul that loves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lives in the heart of God and hears Him speak.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1898.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="another-chance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Another Chance</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Dramatic Lyric</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Come, give me back my life again, you heavy-handed Death!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Uncrook your fingers from my throat, and let me draw my breath.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do me wrong to take me now—too soon for me to die—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, loose me from this clutching pain, and hear the reason why.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I know I've had my forty years, and wasted every one;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet, I tell you honestly, my life is just begun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I've walked the world like one asleep, a dreamer in a trance;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now you've gripped me wide awake—I want another chance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My dreams were always beautiful, my thoughts were high and fine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No life was ever lived on earth to match those dreams of mine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And would you wreck them unfulfilled? What folly, nay, what crime!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You rob the world, you waste a soul; give me a little time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You'll hear me? Yes, I'm sure you will, my hope is not in vain:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I feel the even pulse of peace, the sweet relief from pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The black fog rolls away from me; I'm free once more to plan:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Another chance is all I need to prove myself a man!</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>The world is full of warfare 'twixt the evil and the good;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I watched the battle from afar as one who understood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shouting and confusion, the bloody, blundering fight—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How few there are that see it clear, how few that wage it right!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The captains flushed with foolish pride, the soldiers pale with fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The faltering flags, the feeble fire from ranks that swerve and veer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wild mistakes, the dismal doubts, the coward hearts that flee—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The good cause needs a nobler knight to win the victory.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A man whose soul is pure and strong, whose sword is bright and keen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who knows the splendour of the fight and what its issues mean;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who never takes one step aside, nor halts, though hope be dim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But cleaves a pathway thro' the strife, and bids men follow him.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No blot upon his stainless shield, no weakness in his arm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No sign of trembling in his face to break his valour's charm:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A man like this could stay the flight and lead the wavering line;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, give me but a year of life—I'll make that glory mine!</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>Religion? Yes, I know it well; I've heard its prayers and creeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And seen men put them all to shame with poor, half-hearted deeds.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They follow Christ, but far away; they wander and they doubt.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll serve him in a better way, and live his precepts out.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You see, I waited just for this; I could not be content</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To own a feeble, faltering faith with human weakness blent.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too many runners in the race move slowly, stumble, fall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I will run so straight and swift I shall outstrip them all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, think what it will mean to men, amid their foolish strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see the clear, unshadowed light of one true Christian life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without a touch of selfishness, without a taint of sin,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With one short month of such a life a new world would begin!</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>And love!—I often dream of that—the treasure of the earth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How little they who use the coin have realised its worth!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Twill pay all debts, enrich all hearts, and make all joys secure.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But love, to do its perfect work, must be sincere and pure.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My heart is full of virgin gold. I'll pour it out and spend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My hidden wealth with open hand on all who call me friend.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not one shall miss the kindly deed, the largess of relief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The generous fellowship of joy, the sympathy of grief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'll say the loyal, helpful things that make life sweet and fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll pay the gratitude I owe for human love and care.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps I've been at fault sometimes—I'll ask to be forgiven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And make this little room of mine seem like a bit of heaven.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For one by one I'll call my friends to stand beside my bed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll speak the true and tender words so often left unsaid;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every heart shall throb and glow, all coldness melt away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around my altar-fire of love—ah, give me but one day!</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>What's that? I've had another day, and wasted it again?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A priceless day in empty dreams, another chance in vain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou fool—this night—it's very dark—the last—this choking breath—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One prayer—have mercy on a dreamer's soul—God, this is death!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-anglers-reveille" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Angler's Reveille</h2>
			<p>
				<span>What time the rose of dawn is laid across the lips of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the little watchman-stars have fallen asleep in light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Tis then a merry wind awakes, and runs from tree to tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And borrows words from all the birds to sound the reveille.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">This is the carol the Robin throws</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Over the edge of the valley;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Listen how boldly it flows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Sally on sally:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Tirra-lirra,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Early morn,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>New born!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Day is near,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Clear, clear.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Down the river</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>All a-quiver,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Fish are breaking;</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Time for waking,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Tup, tup, tup!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Do you hear?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>All clear—</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Wake up!</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The phantom flood of dreams has ebbed and vanished with the dark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like a dove the heart forsakes the prison of the ark;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now forth she fares thro' friendly woods and diamond-fields of dew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While every voice cries out “Rejoice!” as if the world were new.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">This is the ballad the Bluebird sings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Unto his mate replying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Shaking the tune from his wings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">While he is flying:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Surely, surely, surely,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i10">
					<em>Life is dear</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i10">
					<em>Even here.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i10">
					<em>Blue above,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i10">
					<em>You to love,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i9">
					<em>Purely, purely, purely.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There's wild azalea on the hill, and iris down the dell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And just one spray of lilac still abloom beside the well;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The columbine adorns the rocks, the laurel buds grow pink,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along the stream white arums gleam, and violets bend to drink.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">This is the song of the Yellow-throat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Fluttering gaily beside you;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Hear how each voluble note</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Offers to guide you:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">
					<em>Which way, sir?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">
					<em>I say, sir,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">
					<em>Let me teach you,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">
					<em>I beseech you!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">
					<em>Are you wishing</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">
					<em>Jolly fishing?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">
					<em>This way, sir!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">
					<em>I'll teach you.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then come, my friend, forget your foes and leave your fears behind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wander forth to try your luck, with cheerful, quiet mind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For be your fortune great or small, you take what God will give,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the day your heart will say, “'Tis luck enough to live.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">This is the song the Brown Thrush flings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Out of his thicket of roses;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Hark how it bubbles and rings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Mark how it closes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Luck, luck,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>What luck?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Good enough for me,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>I'm alive, you see!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Sun shining,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>No repining;</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Never borrow</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Idle sorrow;</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Drop it!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Cover it up!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Hold your cup!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Joy will fill it,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Don't spill it,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Steady, be ready,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">
					<em>Good luck!</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1899.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="to-joseph-jefferson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">To Joseph Jefferson</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>May 4th, 1898.—To-day, fishing down the Swiftwater, I found Joseph Jefferson on a big rock in the middle of the brook, casting the fly for trout. He said he had fished this very stream three-and-forty years ago; and near by, in the Paradise Valley, he wrote his famous play.</p>
					<cite>Leaf from my Diary</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>We met on Nature's stage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And May had set the scene,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With bishop-caps standing in delicate ranks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And violets blossoming over the banks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">While the brook ran full between.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The waters rang your call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With frolicsome waves a-twinkle,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They knew you as boy, and they knew you as man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every wave, as it merrily ran,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cried, “Enter Rip van Winkle!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="little-boatie" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">"Little Boatie"</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Slumber-Song for the Fisherman's Child</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Furl your sail, my little boatie;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Here's the haven still and deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the dreaming tides in-streaming</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Up the channel creep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now the sunset breeze is dying;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hear the plover, landward flying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Softly down the twilight crying;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Come to anchor, little boatie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">In the port of Sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Far away, my little boatie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Roaring waves are white with foam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ships are striving, onward driving,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Day and night they roam.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Father's at the deep-sea trawling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the darkness, rowing, hauling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the hungry winds are calling,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">God protect him, little boatie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Bring him safely home!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for you, my little boatie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Is the wide and weary sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You're too slender, and too tender,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">You must bide with me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All day long you have been straying</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up and down the shore and playing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come to harbour, no delaying!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Day is over, little boatie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Night falls suddenly.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Furl your sail, my little boatie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Fold your wings, my weary dove.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dews are sprinkling, stars are twinkling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Drowsily above.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cease from sailing, cease from rowing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rock upon the dream-tide, knowing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Safely o'er your rest are glowing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">All the night, my little boatie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Harbour-lights of love.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1897.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-echo-in-the-heart" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Echo in the Heart</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It's little I can tell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">About the birds in books;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet I know them well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By their music and their looks:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">When May comes down the lane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Her airy lovers throng</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">To welcome her with song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And follow in her train:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Each minstrel weaves his part</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">In that wild-flowery strain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And I know them all again</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">By their echo in my heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It's little that I care</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">About my darling's place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In books of beauty rare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or heraldries of race:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">For when she steps in view,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">It matters not to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">What her sweet type may be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Of woman, old or new.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">I can't explain the art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">But I know her for my own,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Because her lightest tone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Wakes an echo in my heart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-november-daisy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A November Daisy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Afterthought of summer's bloom!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Late arrival at the feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Coming when the songs have ceased</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the merry guests departed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leaving but an empty room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silence, solitude, and gloom,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are you lonely, heavy-hearted;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You, the last of all your kind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nodding in the autumn-wind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now that all your friends are flown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blooming late and all alone?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, I wrong you, little flower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reading mournful mood of mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In your looks, that give no sign</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a spirit dark and cheerless!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You possess the heavenly power</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That rejoices in the hour.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glad, contented, free, and fearless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lift a sunny face to heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When a sunny day is given!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make a summer of your own,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blooming late and all alone!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once the daisies gold and white</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sea-like through the meadow rolled:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once my heart could hardly hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All its pleasures. I remember,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the flood of youth's delight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Separate joys were lost to sight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That was summer! Now November</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sets the perfect flower apart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gives each blossom of the heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Meaning, beauty, grace unknown,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blooming late and all alone.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>November, 1899.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-river-of-dreams" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The River of Dreams</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The river of dreams runs quietly down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">From its hidden home in the forest of sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With a measureless motion calm and deep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my boat slips out on the current brown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">In a tranquil bay where the trees incline</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Far over the waves, and creepers twine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Far over the boughs, as if to steep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Their drowsy bloom in the tide that goes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">By a secret way that no man knows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under the branches bending,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under the shadows blending,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And the body rests, and the passive soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Is drifted along to an unseen goal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the river of dreams runs down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The river of dreams runs gently down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With a leisurely flow that bears my bark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Out of the visionless woods of dark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into a glory that seems to crown</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Valley and hill with light from far,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Clearer than sun or moon or star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Luminous, wonderful, weird, oh, mark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">How the radiance pulses everywhere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">In the shadowless vault of lucid air!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the mountains shimmering,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up from the fountains glimmering,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">'Tis the mystical glow of the inner light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That shines in the very noon of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the river of dreams runs down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The river of dreams runs murmuring down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Through the fairest garden that ever grew;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And now, as my boat goes drifting through,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A hundred voices arise to drown</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The river's whisper, and charm my ear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With a sound I have often longed to hear,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A magical music, strange and new,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The wild-rose ballad, the lilac-song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The virginal chant of the lilies' throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blue-bells silverly ringing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pansies merrily singing,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For all the flowers have found their voice;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I feel no wonder, but only rejoice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the river of dreams runs down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The river of dreams runs broadening down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Away from the peaceful garden-shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With a current that deepens more and more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the league-long walls of a mighty town;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I see the hurrying crowds of men</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Gather like clouds and dissolve again;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But never a face I have seen before.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">They come and go, they shift and change,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Their ways and looks are wild and strange,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is a city haunted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A multitude enchanted!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">At the sight of the throng I am dumb with fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And never a sound from their lips I hear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the river of dreams runs down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The river of dreams runs darkly down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Into the heart of a desolate land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With ruined temples half-buried in sand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And riven hills, whose black brows frown</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Over the shuddering, lonely wave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The air grows dim with the dust of the grave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">No sign of life on the dreary strand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">No ray of light on the mountain's crest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And a weary wind that cannot rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Comes down the valley creeping,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lamenting, wailing, weeping,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I strive to cry out, but my fluttering breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Is choked with the clinging fog of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the river of dreams runs down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The river of dreams runs trembling down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Out of the valley of nameless fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Into a country calm and clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a mystical name of high renown,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A name that I know, but may not tell,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And there the friends that I loved so well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Old companions forever dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Come beckoning down to the river shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And hail my boat with the voice of yore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fair and sweet are the places</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where I see their unchanged faces!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I feel in my heart with a secret thrill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That the loved and lost are living still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the river of dreams runs down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The river of dreams runs dimly down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">By a secret way that no man knows;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But the soul lives on while the river flows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the gardens bright and the forests brown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I often think that our whole life seems</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To be more than half made up of dreams.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The changing sights and the passing shows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The morning hopes and the midnight fears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Are left behind with the vanished years;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Onward, with ceaseless motion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The life-stream flows to the ocean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">While we follow the tide, awake or asleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Till we see the dawn on Love's great deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And the shadows melt, and the soul is free,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The river of dreams has reached the sea.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1900.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ruby-crowned-kinglet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Ruby-Crowned Kinglet</h2>
			<section id="the-ruby-crowned-kinglet-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Where's your kingdom, little king?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where the land you call your own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where your palace and your throne?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fluttering lightly on the wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through the blossom-world of May,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whither lies your royal way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Little king?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Far to northward lies a land</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Where the trees together stand</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Closely as the blades of wheat</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>When the summer is complete.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Rolling like an ocean wide</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Over vale and mountainside,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Balsam, hemlock, spruce and pine,—</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>All those mighty trees are mine.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>There's a river flowing free,—</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>All its waves belong to me.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>There's a lake so clear and bright</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Stars shine out of it all night;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Rowan-berries round it spread</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Like a belt of coral red.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Never royal garden planned</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Fair as my Canadian land!</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>There I build my summer nest,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>There I reign and there I rest,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>While from dawn to dark I sing,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Happy kingdom! Lucky king!</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-ruby-crowned-kinglet-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Back again, my little king!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is your happy kingdom lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the rebel knave, Jack Frost?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have you felt the snow-flakes sting?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Houseless, homeless in October,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whither now? Your plight is sober,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Exiled king!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Far to southward lie the regions</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Where my loyal flower-legions</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Hold possession of the year,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Filling every month with cheer.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Christmas wakes the winter rose;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>New Year daffodils unclose;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Yellow jasmine through the wood</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Flows in February flood,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Dropping from the tallest trees</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Golden streams that never freeze.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Thither now I take my flight</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Down the pathway of the night,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Till I see the southern moon</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Glisten on the broad lagoon,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Where the cypress' dusky green,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>And the dark magnolia's sheen,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Weave a shelter round my home.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>There the snow-storms never come;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>There the bannered mosses gray</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Like a curtain gently sway,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Hanging low on every side</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Round the covert where I bide,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Till the March azalea glows,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Royal red and heavenly rose,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Through the Carolina glade</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Where my winter home is made.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>There I hold my southern court,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Full of merriment and sport:</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>There I take my ease and sing,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Happy kingdom! Lucky king!</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-ruby-crowned-kinglet-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Little boaster, vagrant king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Neither north nor south is yours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You've no kingdom that endures!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wandering every fall and spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With your ruby crown so slender,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you only a Pretender,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Landless king?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Never king by right divine</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Ruled a richer realm than mine!</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>What are lands and golden crowns,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Armies, fortresses and towns,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Jewels, sceptres, robes and rings,—</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>What are these to song and wings?</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Everywhere that I can fly,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>There I own the earth and sky;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Everywhere that I can sing.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>There I'm happy as a king.</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1900.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Music</h2>
			<section id="music-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Prelude</p>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="music-1-1">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span class="i1">Daughter of Psyche, pledge of that wild night</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When, pierced with pain and bitter-sweet delight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She knew her Love and saw her Lord depart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Then breathed her wonder and her woe forlorn</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Into a single cry, and thou wast born!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou flower of rapture and thou fruit of grief;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Invisible enchantress of the heart;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Mistress of charms that bring relief</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To sorrow, and to joy impart</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A heavenly tone that keeps it undefined,—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Thou art the child</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Amor, and by right divine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">A throne of love is thine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou flower-folded, golden-girdled, star-crowned Queen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose bridal beauty mortal eyes have never seen!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="music-1-2">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">Thou art the Angel of the pool that sleeps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">While peace and joy lie hidden in its deeps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Waiting thy touch to make the waters roll</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In healing murmurs round the weary soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ah, when wilt thou draw near,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou messenger of mercy robed in song?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">My lonely heart has listened for thee long;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And now I seem to hear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Across the crowded market-place of life,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thy measured foot-fall, ringing light and clear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Above unmeaning noises and unruly strife.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">In quiet cadence, sweet and slow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Serenely pacing to and fro,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thy far-off steps are magical and dear,—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Ah, turn this way, come close and speak to me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From this dull bed of languor set my spirit free,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bid me rise, and let me walk awhile with thee.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="music-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Invocation</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Where wilt thou lead me first?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In what still region</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Of thy domain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Whose provinces are legion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Wilt thou restore me to myself again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And quench my heart's long thirst?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I pray thee lay thy golden girdle down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And put away thy starry crown:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">For one dear restful hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Assume a state more mild.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clad only in thy blossom-broidered gown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That breathes familiar scent of many a flower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take the low path that leads through pastures green;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And though thou art a Queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be Rosamund awhile, and in thy bower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By tranquil love and simple joy beguiled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing to my soul, as mother to her child.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="music-3">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Play Song</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O lead me by the hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And let my heart have rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bring me back to childhood land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To find again the long-lost band</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of playmates blithe and blest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Some quaint, old-fashioned air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That all the children knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall run before us everywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a little maid with flying hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To guide the merry crew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Along the garden ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We chase the light-foot tune,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in and out the flowery maze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With eager haste and fond delays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In pleasant paths of June.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">For us the fields are new,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For us the woods are rife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fairy secrets, deep and true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heaven is but a tent of blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above the game of life.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The world is far away:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fever and the fret,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all that makes the heart grow gray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is out of sight and far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear Music, while I hear thee play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That olden, golden roundelay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Remember and forget!”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="music-4">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Sleep Song</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">Forget, forget!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The tide of life is turning;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The waves of light ebb slowly down the west:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Along the edge of dark some stars are burning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To guide thy spirit safely to an isle of rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">A little rocking on the tranquil deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of song, to soothe thy yearning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">A little slumber and a little sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">And so, forget, forget!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i6">Forget, forget,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The day was long in pleasure;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Its echoes die away across the hill;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now let thy heart beat time to their slow measure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That swells, and sinks, and faints, and falls, till all is still.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Then, like a weary child that loves to keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Locked in its arms some treasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Thy soul in calm content shall fall asleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">And so forget, forget.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i6">Forget, forget,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And if thou hast been weeping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Let go the thoughts that bind thee to thy grief:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lie still, and watch the singing angels, reaping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The golden harvest of thy sorrow, sheaf by sheaf;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Or count thy joys like flocks of snow-white sheep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">That one by one come creeping</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Into the quiet fold, until thou sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">And so forget, forget!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i6">Forget, forget,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Thou art a child and knowest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">So little of thy life! But music tells</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The secret of the world through which thou goest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To work with morning song, to rest with evening bells:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Life is in tune with harmony so deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">That when the notes are lowest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Thou still canst lay thee down in peace and sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">For God will not forget.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="music-5">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Hunting Song</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Out of the garden of playtime, out of the bower of rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fain would I follow at daytime, music that calls to a quest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Hark, how the galloping measure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Quickens the pulses of pleasure;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Gaily saluting the morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the long, clear note of the hunting-horn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Echoing up from the valley,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Over the mountain side,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Rally, you hunters, rally,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Rally, and ride!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Drink of the magical potion music has mixed with her wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of the madness of motion, joyful, exultant, divine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Leave all your troubles behind you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Ride where they never can find you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Into the gladness of morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the long, clear note of the hunting-horn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Swiftly o'er hillock and hollow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Sweeping along with the wind,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Follow, you hunters, follow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Follow and find!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What will you reach with your riding? What is the charm of the chase?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just the delight and the striding swing of the jubilant pace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Danger is sweet when you front her,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In at the death, every hunter!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Now on the breeze the mort is borne</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the long, clear note of the hunting-horn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Winding merrily, over and over,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Come, come, come!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Home again, Ranger! home again, Rover!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Turn again, home!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="music-6">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Dance-Music</p>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="music-6-1">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Now let the sleep-tune blend with the play-tune,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Weaving the mystical spell of the dance;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lighten the deep tune, soften the gay tune,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mingle a tempo that turns in a trance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Half of it sighing, half of it smiling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Smoothly it swings, with a triplicate beat;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Calling, replying, yearning, beguiling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wooing the heart and bewitching the feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Every drop of blood</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Rises with the flood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Rocking on the waves of the strain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Youth and beauty glide</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Turning with the tide—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Music making one out of twain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bearing them away, and away, and away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Like a tone and its terce—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Till the chord dissolves, and the dancers stay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And reverse.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Violins leading, take up the measure,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Turn with the tune again,—clarinets clear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Answer their pleading,—harps full of pleasure</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sprinkle their silver like light on the mere.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Semiquaver notes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Merry little motes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Tangled in the haze</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Of the lamp's golden rays,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Quiver everywhere</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In the air,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Like a spray,—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Till the fuller stream of the might of the tune,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gliding like a dream in the light of the moon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bears them all away, and away, and away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Floating in the trance of the dance.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="music-6-2">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Then begins a measure stately,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Languid, slow, serene;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All the dancers move sedately,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stepping leisurely and straitly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With a courtly mien;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crossing hands and changing places,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Bowing low between,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While the minuet inlaces</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Waving arms and woven paces,—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Glittering damaskeen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where is she whose form is folden</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In its royal sheen?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From our longing eyes withholden</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By her mystic girdle golden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Beauty sought but never seen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Music walks the maze, a queen.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="music-7">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">War-Music</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Break off! Dance no more!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Danger is at the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Music is in arms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">To signal war's alarms.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Hark, a sudden trumpet calling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Over the hill!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why are you calling, trumpet, calling?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">What is your will?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Men, men, men!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Men who are ready to fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For their country's life, and the right</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of a liberty-loving land to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Free, free, free!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Free from a tyrant's chain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Free from dishonor's stain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Free to guard and maintain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All that her fathers fought for,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All that her sons have wrought for,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Resolute, brave, and free!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Call again, trumpet, call again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Call up the men!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Do you hear the storm of cheers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mingled with the women's tears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the tramp, tramp, tramp of marching feet?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Do you hear the throbbing drum</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As the hosts of battle come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keeping time, time, time to its beat?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O Music give a song</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To make their spirit strong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the fury of the tempest they must meet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">The hoarse roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of the monster guns;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And the sharp bark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of the lesser guns;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The whine of the shells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The rifles' clatter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where the bullets patter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The rattle, rattle, rattle</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of the mitrailleuse in battle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And the yells</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of the men who charge through hells</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where the poison gas descends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And the bursting shrapnel rends</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Limb from limb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In the dim</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Chaos and clamor of the strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where no man thinks of his life</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But only of fighting through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Blindly fighting through, through!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">'Tis done</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">At last!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The victory won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The dissonance of warfare past!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">O Music mourn the dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Whose loyal blood was shed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And sound the taps for every hero slain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Then lead into the song</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That made their spirit strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And tell the world they did not die in vain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Thank God we can see, in the glory of morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The invincible flag that our fathers defended;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And our hearts can repeat what the heroes have sworn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That war shall not end till the war-lust is ended.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then the bloodthirsty sword shall no longer be lord</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the nations oppressed by the conqueror's horde,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But the banners of Liberty proudly shall wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">O'er the <em>world</em> of the free and the lands of the brave.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>May, 1916.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
			<section id="music-8">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Symphony</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Music, they do thee wrong who say thine art</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Is only to enchant the sense.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For every timid motion of the heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And every passion too intense</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To bear the chain of the imperfect word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And every tremulous longing, stirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By spirit winds that come we know not whence</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And go we know not where,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And every inarticulate prayer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beating about the depths of pain or bliss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Like some bewildered bird</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That seeks its nest but knows not where it is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And every dream that haunts, with dim delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The drowsy hour between the day and night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wakeful hour between the night and day,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Imprisoned, waits for thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Impatient, yearns for thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The queen who comes to set the captive free!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou lendest wings to grief to fly away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And wings to joy to reach a heavenly height;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every dumb desire that storms within the breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou leadest forth to sob or sing itself to rest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">All these are thine, and therefore love is thine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">For love is joy and grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And trembling doubt, and certain-sure belief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And fear, and hope, and longing unexpressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In pain most human, and in rapture brief</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Almost divine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Love would possess, yet deepens when denied;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And love would give, yet hungers to receive;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Love like a prince his triumph would achieve;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a miser in the dark his joys would hide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Love is most bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He leads his dreams like armèd men in line;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet when the siege is set, and he must speak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Calling the fortress to resign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its treasure, valiant love grows weak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hardly dares his purpose to unfold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Less with his faltering lips than with his eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">He claims the longed-for prize:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love fain would tell it all, yet leaves the best untold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But thou shalt speak for love. Yea, thou shalt teach</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The mystery of measured tone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The Pentecostal speech</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That every listener heareth as his own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For on thy head the cloven tongues of fire,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Diminished chords that quiver with desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And major chords that glow with perfect peace,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Have fallen from above;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And thou canst give release</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In music to the burdened heart of love.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Sound with the 'cellos' pleading, passionate strain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The yearning theme, and let the flute reply</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In placid melody, while violins complain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">And sob, and sigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">With muted string;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Then let the oboe half-reluctant sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of bliss that trembles on the verge of pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">While 'cellos plead and plead again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With throbbing notes delayed, that would impart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To every urgent tone the beating of the heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">So runs the andante, making plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The hopes and fears of love without a word.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then comes the adagio, with a yielding theme</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through which the violas flow soft as in a dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">While horns and mild bassoons are heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In tender tune, that seems to float</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Like an enchanted boat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Upon the downward-gliding stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Toward the allegro's wide, bright sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Of dancing, glittering, blending tone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where every instrument is sounding free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And harps like wedding-chimes are rung, and trumpets blown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Around the barque of love</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That rides, with smiling skies above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">A royal galley, many-oared,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Into the happy harbour of the perfect chord.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="music-9">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Iris</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">Light to the eye and Music to the ear,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">These are the builders of the bridge that springs</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">From earth's dim shore of half-remembered things</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To reach the heavenly sphere</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where nothing silent is and nothing dark.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">So when I see the rainbow's arc</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Spanning the showery sky, far-off I hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Music, and every colour sings:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And while the symphony builds up its round</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Full sweep of architectural harmony</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Above the tide of Time, far, far away I see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A bow of colour in the bow of sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Red as the dawn the trumpet rings;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Blue as the sky, the choir of strings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Darkens in double-bass to ocean's hue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rises in violins to noon-tide's blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With threads of quivering light shot through and through;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Green as the mantle that the summer flings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Around the world, the pastoral reeds in tune</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Embroider melodies of May and June.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Purer than gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Yea, thrice-refinèd gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And richer than the treasures of the mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Floods of the human voice divine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Along the arch in choral song are rolled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">So bends the bow complete:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And radiant rapture flows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Across the bridge, so full, so strong, so sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That the uplifted spirit hardly knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Whether the Music-Light that glows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within the arch of tones and colours seven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is sunset-peace of earth or sunrise-joy of Heaven.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="music-10">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Sea and Shore</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Music, I yield to thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">As swimmer to the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I give my spirit to the flood of song!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Bear me upon thy breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In rapture and at rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bathe me in pure delight and make me strong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">From strife and struggle bring release,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And draw the waves of passion into tides of peace.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Remembered songs most dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In living songs I hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While blending voices gently swing and sway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In melodies of love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Whose mighty currents move</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With singing near and singing far away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Sweet in the glow of morning light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sweeter still across the starlit gulf of night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Music, in thee we float,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And lose the lonely note</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of self in thy celestial-ordered strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Until at last we find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The life to love resigned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In harmony of joy restored again;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And songs that cheered our mortal days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Break on the shore of light in endless hymns of praise.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>December, 1901—May, 1903—May, 1916.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="ode-to-peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ode to Peace</h2>
			<p>
				<span>With eager heart and will on fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I strove to win my great desire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Peace shall be mine,” I said; but life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grew bitter in the barren strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My soul was weary, and my pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was wounded deep; to Heaven I cried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“God grant me peace or I must die;”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dumb stars glittered no reply.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Broken at last, I bowed my head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgetting all myself, and said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Whatever comes, His will be done;”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in that moment peace was won.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="victor-hugo" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Victor Hugo</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">1802-1902</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Heart of France for a hundred years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Passionate, sensitive, proud, and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Quick to throb with her hopes and fears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fierce to flame with her sense of wrong!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You, who hailed with a morning song</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dream-light gilding a throne of old:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You, who turned when the dream grew cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Singing still, to the light that shone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pure from Liberty's ancient throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Over the human throng!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You, who dared in the dark eclipse,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the pygmy heir of a giant name</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dimmed the face of the land with shame,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Speak the truth with indignant lips,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Call him little whom men called great,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Scoff at him, scorn him, deny him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Point to the blood on his robe of state,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Fling back his bribes and defy him!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You, who fronted the waves of fate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As you faced the sea from your island home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exiled, yet with a soul elate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sending songs o'er the rolling foam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bidding the heart of man to wait</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For the day when all should see</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Floods of wrath from the frowning skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fall on an Empire founded in lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And France again be free!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You, who came in the Terrible Year</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Swiftly back to your broken land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now to your heart a thousand times more dear,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Prayed for her, sung to her, fought for her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Patiently, fervently wrought for her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Till once again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">After the storm of fear and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High in the heavens the star of France stood clear!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">You, who knew that a man must take</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Good and ill with a steadfast soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Holding fast, while the billows roll</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Over his head, to the things that make</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life worth living for great and small,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Honour and pity and truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The heart and the hope of youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the good God over all!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You, to whom work was rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dauntless Toiler of the Sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Following ever the joyful quest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of beauty on the shores of old Romance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Bard of the poor of France,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And warrior-priest of world-wide charity!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You who loved little children best</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of all the poets that ever sung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Great heart, golden heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Old, and yet ever young,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Minstrel of liberty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lover of all free, winged things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Now at last you are free,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your soul has its wings!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heart of France for a hundred years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Floating far in the light that never fails you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the turmoil of mortal hopes and fears</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Victor, forever victor, the whole world hails you!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>March, 1902.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="god-of-the-open-air" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">God of the Open Air</h2>
			<section id="god-of-the-open-air-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Thou who hast made thy dwelling fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With flowers below, above with starry lights</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And set thine altars everywhere,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">On mountain heights,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In woodlands dim with many a dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">In valleys bright with springs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on the curving capes of every stream:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou who hast taken to thyself the wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of morning, to abide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the secret places of the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And on far islands, where the tide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Visits the beauty of untrodden shores,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waiting for worshippers to come to thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">In thy great out-of-doors!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To thee I turn, to thee I make my prayer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">God of the open air.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="god-of-the-open-air-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Seeking for thee, the heart of man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Lonely and longing ran,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that first, solitary hour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">When the mysterious power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To know and love the wonder of the morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was breathed within him, and his soul was born;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">And thou didst meet thy child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Not in some hidden shrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But in the freedom of the garden wild,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">And take his hand in thine,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There all day long in Paradise he walked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the cool of evening with thee talked.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="god-of-the-open-air-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Lost, long ago, that garden bright and pure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lost, that calm day too perfect to endure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lost the child-like love that worshipped and was sure!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For men have dulled their eyes with sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dimmed the light of heaven with doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And built their temple walls to shut thee in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And framed their iron creeds to shut thee out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But not for thee the closing of the door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">O Spirit unconfined!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Thy ways are free</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">As is the wandering wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And thou hast wooed thy children, to restore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Their fellowship with thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In peace of soul and simpleness of mind.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="god-of-the-open-air-4">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Joyful the heart that, when the flood rolled by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Leaped up to see the rainbow in the sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And glad the pilgrim, in the lonely night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For whom the hills of Haran, tier on tier,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Built up a secret stairway to the height</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where stars like angel eyes were shining clear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From mountain-peaks, in many a land and age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Disciples of the Persian seer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have hailed the rising sun and worshipped thee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And wayworn followers of the Indian sage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have found the peace of God beneath a spreading tree.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="god-of-the-open-air-5">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">But One, but One,—ah, Son most dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And perfect image of the Love Unseen,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Walked every day in pastures green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all his life the quiet waters by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reading their beauty with a tranquil eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him the desert was a place prepared</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">For weary hearts to rest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The hillside was a temple blest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The grassy vale a banquet-room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where he could feed and comfort many a guest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">With him the lily shared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vital joy that breathes itself in bloom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every bird that sang beside the nest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Told of the love that broods o'er every living thing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He watched the shepherd bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His flock at sundown to the welcome fold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fisherman at daybreak fling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His net across the waters gray and cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all day long the patient reaper swing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His curving sickle through the harvest-gold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So through the world the foot-path way he trod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breathing the air of heaven in every breath;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the evening sacrifice of death</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the open sky he gave his soul to God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him will I trust, and for my Master take;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him will I follow; and for his dear sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">God of the open air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">To thee I make my prayer.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="god-of-the-open-air-6">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>From the prison of anxious thought that greed has builded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the fetters that envy has wrought and pride has gilded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the noise of the crowded ways and the fierce confusion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the folly that wastes its days in a world of illusion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Ah, but the life is lost that frets and languishes there!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would escape and be free in the joy of the open air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By the breadth of the blue that shines in silence o'er me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the length of the mountain-lines that stretch before me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the height of the cloud that sails, with rest in motion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the plains and the vales to the measureless ocean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Oh, how the sight of the greater things enlarges the eyes!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Draw me away from myself to the peace of the hills and skies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>While the tremulous leafy haze on the woodland is spreading,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the bloom on the meadow betrays where May has been treading;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the birds on the branches above, and the brooks flowing under,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are singing together of love in a world full of wonder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Lo, in the magic of Springtime, dreams are changed into truth!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quicken my heart, and restore the beautiful hopes of youth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By the faith that the wild-flowers show when they bloom unbidden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the calm of the river's flow to a goal that is hidden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the strength of the tree that clings to its deep foundation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the courage of birds' light wings on the long migration,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Wonderful spirit of trust that abides in Nature's breast!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Teach me how to confide, and live my life, and rest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For the comforting warmth of the sun that my body embraces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the cool of the waters that run through the shadowy places,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the balm of the breezes that brush my face with their fingers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the vesper-hymn of the thrush when the twilight lingers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the long breath, the deep breath, the breath of a heart without care,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will give thanks and adore thee, God of the open air!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="god-of-the-open-air-7">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">These are the gifts I ask</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of thee, Spirit serene:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Strength for the daily task,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Courage to face the road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Good cheer to help me bear the traveller's load,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, for the hours of rest that come between,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An inward joy in all things heard and seen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">These are the sins I fain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Would have thee take away:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Malice, and cold disdain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Hot anger, sullen hate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Scorn of the lowly, envy of the great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And discontent that casts a shadow gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On all the brightness of the common day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">These are the things I prize</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And hold of dearest worth:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Light of the sapphire skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Peace of the silent hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shelter of forests, comfort of the grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Music of birds, murmur of little rills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shadows of cloud that swiftly pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And, after showers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The smell of flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And of the good brown earth,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And best of all, along the way, friendship and mirth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">So let me keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">These treasures of the humble heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In true possession, owning them by love;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And when at last I can no longer move</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Among them freely, but must part</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">From the green fields and from the waters clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Let me not creep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into some darkened room and hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From all that makes the world so bright and dear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">But throw the windows wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To welcome in the light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And while I clasp a well-belovèd hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Let me once more have sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of the deep sky and the far-smiling land,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Then gently fall on sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And breathe my body back to Nature's care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My spirit out to thee, God of the open air.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1904.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-three-best-things" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Three Best Things</h2>
			<section id="the-three-best-things-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Work</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Let me but do my work from day to day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In field or forest, at the desk or loom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In roaring market-place or tranquil room;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me but find it in my heart to say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When vagrant wishes beckon me astray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“This is my work; my blessing, not my doom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of all who live, I am the one by whom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This work can best be done in the right way.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then shall I see it not too great, nor small,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To suit my spirit and to prove my powers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then shall I cheerful greet the labouring hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cheerful turn, when the long shadows fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At eventide, to play and love and rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because I know for me my work is best.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-three-best-things-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Love</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Let me but love my love without disguise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor wear a mask of fashion old or new,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor wait to speak till I can hear a clue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor play a part to shine in others' eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor bow my knees to what my heart denies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But what I am, to that let me be true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let me worship where my love is due,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so through love and worship let me rise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For love is but the heart's immortal thirst</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To be completely known and all forgiven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even as sinful souls that enter Heaven:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So take me, dear, and understand my worst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And freely pardon it, because confessed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let me find in loving thee, my best.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-three-best-things-3">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Life</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Let me but live my life from year to year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With forward face and unreluctant soul;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not hurrying to, nor turning from, the goal;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not mourning for the things that disappear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the dim past, nor holding back in fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From what the future veils; but with a whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And happy heart, that pays its toll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Youth and Age, and travels on with cheer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So let the way wind up the hill or down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O'er rough or smooth, the journey will be joy:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still seeking what I sought when but a boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New friendship, high adventure, and a crown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart will keep the courage of the quest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hope the road's last turn will be the best.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="the-child-in-the-garden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Child in the Garden</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When to the garden of untroubled thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I came of late, and saw the open door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wished again to enter, and explore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sweet, wild ways with stainless bloom inwrought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bowers of innocence with beauty fraught,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It seemed some purer voice must speak before</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I dared to tread that garden loved of yore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Eden lost unknown and found unsought.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then just within the gate I saw a child,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A stranger-child, yet to my heart most dear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He held his hands to me, and softly smiled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With eyes that knew no shade of sin or fear:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Come in,” he said, “and play awhile with me;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the little child you used to be.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="loves-reason" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love's Reason</h2>
			<p>
				<span>For that thy face is fair I love thee not;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor yet because thy brown benignant eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have sudden gleams of gladness and surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like woodland brooks that cross a sunlit spot:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor for thy body, born without a blot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And loveliest when it shines with no disguise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pure as the star of Eve in Paradise,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For all these outward things I love thee not:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But for a something in thy form and face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy looks and ways, of primal harmony;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A certain soothing charm, a vital grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That breathes of the eternal womanly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And makes me feel the warmth of Nature's breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When in her arms, and thine, I sink to rest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="portrait-and-reality" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Portrait and Reality</h2>
			<p>
				<span>If on the closed curtain of my sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My fancy paints thy portrait far away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I see thee still the same, by night or day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crossing the crowded street, or moving bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Mid festal throngs, or reading by the light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of shaded lamp some friendly poet's lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or shepherding the children at their play,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The same sweet self, and my unchanged delight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when I see thee near, I recognize</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In every dear familiar way some strange</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perfection, and behold in April guise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The magic of thy beauty that doth range</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through many moods with infinite surprise,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Never the same, and sweeter with each change.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-wind-of-sorrow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Wind of Sorrow</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The fire of love was burning, yet so low</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That in the peaceful dark it made no rays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And in the light of perfect-placid days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ashes hid the smouldering embers' glow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Vainly, for love's delight, we sought to throw</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">New pleasures on the pyre to make it blaze:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">In life's calm air and tranquil-prosperous ways</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We missed the radiant heat of long ago.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then in the night, a night of sad alarms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Bitter with pain and black with fog of fears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That drove us trembling to each other's arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Across the gulf of darkness and salt tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into life's calm the wind of sorrow came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fanned the fire of love to clearest name.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="patria" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Patria</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I would not even ask my heart to say</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If I could love another land as well</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As thee, my country, had I felt the spell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Italy at birth, or learned to obey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The charm of France, or England's mighty sway.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I would not be so much an infidel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As once to dream, or fashion words to tell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What land could hold my heart from thee away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For like a law of nature in my blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">America, I feel thy sovereignty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And woven through my soul thy vital sign.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My life is but a wave and thou the flood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I am a leaf and thou the mother-tree;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nor should I be at all, were I not thine.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>June, 1904.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="a-legend-of-service" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Legend of Service</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It pleased the Lord of Angels (praise His name!)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hear, one day, report from those who came</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With pitying sorrow, or exultant joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To tell of earthly tasks in His employ.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For some were grieved because they saw how slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stream of heavenly love on earth must flow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some were glad because their eyes had seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along its banks, fresh flowers and living green.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At last, before the whiteness of the throne</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The youngest angel, Asmiel, stood alone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor glad, nor sad, but full of earnest thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus his tidings to the Master brought</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Lord, in the city Lupon I have found</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Three servants of thy holy name, renowned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above their fellows. One is very wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With thoughts that ever range beyond the skies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And one is gifted with the golden speech</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That makes men gladly hear when he will teach;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And one, with no rare gift or grace endued,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has won the people's love by doing good.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With three such saints Lupon is trebly blest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, Lord, I fain would know, which loves Thee best?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then spake the Lord of Angels, to whose look</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hearts of all are like an open book:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“In every soul the secret thought I read,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And well I know who loves me best indeed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But every life has pages vacant still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whereon a man may write the thing he will;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Therefore I read the record, day by day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wait for hearts untaught to learn my way.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But thou shalt go to Lupon, to the three</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who serve me there, and take this word from me:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell each of them his Master bids him go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alone to Spiran's huts, across the snow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There he shall find a certain task for me:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But what, I do not tell to them nor thee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give thou the message, make my word the test,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And crown for me the one who loves me best.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silent the angel stood, with folded hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To take the imprint of his Lord's commands;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then drew one breath, obedient and elate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And passed the self-same hour, through Lupon's gate.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>First to the Temple door he made his way;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there, because it was a holy-day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He saw the folk in thousands thronging, stirred</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By ardent thirst to hear the preacher's word.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then, while the people whispered Bernol's name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through aisles that hushed behind him Bernol came;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strung to the keenest pitch of conscious might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With lips prepared and firm, and eyes alight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One moment at the pulpit step he knelt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In silent prayer, and on his shoulder felt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The angel's hand:—“The Master bids thee go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alone to Spiran's huts, across the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To serve Him there.” Then Bernol's hidden face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Went white as death, and for about the space</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of ten slow heart-beats there was no reply;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till Bernol looked around and whispered, “<em>Why?</em>”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But answer to his question came there none;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The angel sighed, and with a sigh was gone.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>Within the humble house where Malvin spent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His studious years, on holy things intent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet stillness reigned; and there the angel found</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The saintly sage immersed in thought profound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weaving with patient toil and willing care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A web of wisdom, wonderful and fair:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A seamless robe for Truth's great bridal meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And needing but one thread to be complete.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then Asmiel touched his hand, and broke the thread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of fine-spun thought, and very gently said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The One of whom thou thinkest bids thee go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alone to Spiran's huts, across the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To serve Him there.” With sorrow and surprise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Malvin looked up, reluctance in his eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The broken thought, the strangeness of the call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The perilous passage of the mountain-wall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The solitary journey, and the length</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of ways unknown, too great for his frail strength,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Appalled him. With a doubtful brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He scanned the doubtful task, and muttered “<em>How?</em>”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Asmiel answered, as he turned to go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With cold, disheartened voice, “I do not know.”</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>Now as he went, with fading hope, to seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The third and last to whom God bade him speak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scarce twenty steps away whom should he meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Fermor, hurrying cheerful down the street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With ready heart that faced his work like play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And joyed to find it greater every day!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The angel stopped him with uplifted hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gave without delay his Lord's command:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“He whom thou servest here would have thee go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alone to Spiran's huts, across the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To serve Him there.” Ere Asmiel breathed again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The eager answer leaped to meet him, “<em>When?</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The angel's face with inward joy grew bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all his figure glowed with heavenly light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He took the golden circlet from his brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gave the crown to Fermor, answering, “Now!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thou hast met the Master's hidden test,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I have found the man who loves Him best.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not thine, nor mine, to question or reply</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When He commands us, asking ‘how?’ or ‘why?’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knows the cause; His ways are wise and just;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who serves the King must serve with perfect trust.”</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>February, 1902.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-vain-king" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Vain King</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In robes of Tyrian blue the King was drest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A jewelled collar shone upon his breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A giant ruby glittered in his crown:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord of rich lands and many a splendid town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In him the glories of an ancient line</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sober kings, who ruled by right divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were centred; and to him with loyal awe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The people looked for leadership and law.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ten thousand knights, the safeguard of the land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were like a single sword within his hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A hundred courts, with power of life and death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Proclaimed decrees of justice by his breath;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the sacred growths that men had known</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of order and of rule upheld his throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Proud was the King: yet not with such a heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As fits a man to play a royal part.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not his the pride that honours as a trust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The right to rule, the duty to be just:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not his the dignity that bends to bear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The monarch's yoke, the master's load of care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And labours like the peasant at his gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To serve the people and protect the State.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Another pride was his, and other joys:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To him the crown and sceptre were but toys,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With which he played at glory's idle game,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To please himself and win the wreaths of fame.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The throne his fathers held from age to age,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To his ambition seemed a fitting stage</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Built for King Martin to display at will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His mighty strength and universal skill.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No conscious child, that, spoiled with praising, tries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At every step to win admiring eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No favourite mountebank, whose acting draws</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From gaping crowds the thunder of applause,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was vainer than the King: his only thirst</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was to be hailed, in every race, the first.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When tournament was held, in knightly guise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The King would ride the lists and win the prize;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When music charmed the court, with golden lyre</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The King would take the stage and lead the choir;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In hunting, his the lance to slay the boar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In hawking, see his falcon highest soar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In painting, he would wield the master's brush;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In high debate,—“the King is speaking! Hush!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus, with a restless heart, in every field</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He sought renown, and made his subjects yield.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But while he played the petty games of life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His kingdom fell a prey to inward strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Corruption through the court unheeded crept,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on the seat of honour justice slept.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The strong trod down the weak; the helpless poor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Groaned under burdens grievous to endure;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The nation's wealth was spent in vain display,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And weakness wore the nation's heart away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet think not Earth is blind to human woes—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man has more friends and helpers than he knows;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when a patient people are oppressed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The land that bore them feels it in her breast.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spirits of field and flood, of heath and hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are grieved and angry at the spreading ill;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The trees complain together in the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Voices of wrath are heard along the height,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And secret vows are sworn, by stream and strand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bring the tyrant low and free the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But little recked the pampered King of these;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He heard no voice but such as praise and please.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flattered and fooled, victor in every sport,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One day he wandered idly with his court</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beside the river, seeking to devise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New ways to show his skill to wondering eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There in the stream a patient angler stood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cast his line across the rippling flood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His silver spoil lay near him on the green:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Such fish,” the courtiers cried, “were never seen!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Three salmon longer than a cloth-yard shaft—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This man must be the master of his craft!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“An easy art!” the jealous King replied:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Myself could learn it better, if I tried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And catch a hundred larger fish a week—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wilt thou accept the challenge, fellow? Speak!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The angler turned, came near, and bent his knee:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“'Tis not for kings to strive with such as me;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet if the King commands it, I obey.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But one condition of the strife I pray:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fisherman who brings the least to land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall do whate'er the other may command.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loud laughed the King: “A foolish fisher thou!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I shall win, and rule thee then as now.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then to Prince John, a sober soul, sedate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And slow, King Martin left the helm of State,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While to the novel game with eager zest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He all his time and all his powers addressed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sure such a sight was never seen before!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In robe and crown the monarch trod the shore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His golden hooks were decked with feathers fine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His jewelled reel ran out a silken line.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With kingly strokes he flogged the crystal stream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far-off the salmon saw his tackle gleam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Careless of kings, they eyed with calm disdain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gaudy lure, and Martin fished in vain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On Friday, when the week was almost spent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He scanned his empty creel with discontent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Called for a net, and cast it far and wide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And drew—a thousand minnows from the tide!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then came the angler to conclude the match,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And at the monarch's feet spread out his catch—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A hundred salmon, greater than before.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I win!” he cried: “the King must pay the score.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then Martin, angry, threw his tackle down:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Rather than lose this game I'd lose my crown!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Nay, thou hast lost them both,” the angler said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as he spoke a wondrous light was shed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around his form; he dropped his garments mean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in his place the River-god was seen.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thy vanity has brought thee in my power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thou must pay the forfeit at this hour:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thou hast shown thyself a royal fool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too proud to angle, and too vain to rule,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eager to win in every trivial strife,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go! Thou shalt fish for minnows all thy life!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrathful, the King the magic sentence heard;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He strove to answer, but he only <em>chirr-r-ed</em>:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His royal robe was changed to wings of blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His crown a ruby crest,—away he flew!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So every summer day along the stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vain King-fisher darts, an azure gleam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And scolds the angler with a mocking scream.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>April, 1904.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="a-mile-with-me" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Mile with Me</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O who will walk a mile with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Along life's merry way?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A comrade blithe and full of glee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who dares to laugh out loud and free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let his frolic fancy play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a happy child, through the flowers gay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That fill the field and fringe the way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where he walks a mile with me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And who will walk a mile with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Along life's weary way?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A friend whose heart has eyes to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stars shine out o'er the darkening lea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the quiet rest at the end o' the day,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A friend who knows, and dares to say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The brave, sweet words that cheer the way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where he walks a mile with me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With such a comrade, such a friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I fain would walk till journeys end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through summer sunshine, winter rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then?—Farewell, we shall meet again!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="spring-in-the-south" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Spring in the South</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Now in the oak the sap of life is welling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tho' to the bough the rusty leafage clings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now on the elm the misty buds are swelling;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Every little pine-wood grows alive with wings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blue-jays are fluttering, yodeling and crying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Meadow-larks sailing low above the faded grass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Red-birds whistling clear, silent robins flying,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who has waked the birds up? What has come to pass?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Last year's cotton-plants, desolately bowing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tremble in the March-wind, ragged and forlorn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Red are the hillsides of the early ploughing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gray are the lowlands, waiting for the corn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Earth seems asleep, but she is only feigning;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deep in her bosom thrills a sweet unrest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look where the jasmine lavishly is raining</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Jove's golden shower into Danäe's breast!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now on the plum-tree a snowy bloom is sifted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Now on the peach-tree, the glory of the rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far o'er the hills a tender haze is drifted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Full to the brim the yellow river flows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dark cypress boughs with vivid jewels glisten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Greener than emeralds shining in the sun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whence comes the magic? Listen, sweetheart, listen!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The mocking-bird is singing: Spring is begun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hark, in his song no tremor of misgiving!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All of his heart he pours into his lay,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Love, love, love, and pure delight of living:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Winter is forgotten: here's a happy day!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fair in your face I read the flowery presage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Snowy on your brow and rosy on your mouth:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet in your voice I hear the season's message,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Love, love, love, and Spring in the South!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1904.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="loves-nearness" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love's Nearness</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I think of thee when golden sunbeams glimmer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Across the sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the waves reflect the moon's pale shimmer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">I think of thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I see thy form when down the distant highway</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">The dust-clouds rise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In darkest night, above the mountain by-way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">I see thine eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I hear thee when the ocean-tides returning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Aloud rejoice;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on the lonely moor in silence yearning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">I hear thy voice.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I dwell with thee; though thou art far removed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Yet thou art near.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sun goes down, the stars shine out,—Beloved</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">If thou wert here!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>From the German of Goethe, 1898.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="school" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">School</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I put my heart to school</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the world where men grow wise:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Go out,” I said, “and learn the rule;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come back when you win a prize.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My heart came back again:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Now where is the prize?” I cried.—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The rule was false, and the prize was pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the teacher's name was Pride.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I put my heart to school</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the woods where veeries sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And brooks run clear and cool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the fields where wild flowers spring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“And why do you stay so long</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart, and where do you roam?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The answer came with a laugh and a song,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I find this school is home.”</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>April, 1901.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="a-mothers-birthday" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Mother's Birthday</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Lord Jesus, Thou hast known</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A mother's love and tender care:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And Thou wilt hear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">While for my own</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Mother most dear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">I make this birthday prayer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Protect her life, I pray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who gave the gift of life to me;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And may she know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">From day to day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">The deepening glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Of joy that comes from Thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As once upon her breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fearless and well content I lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">So let her heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">On Thee at rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Feel fear depart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And trouble fade away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah, hold her by the hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As once her hand held mine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And though she may</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Not understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Life's winding way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Lead her in peace divine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I cannot pay my debt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For all the love that she has given;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">But Thou, love's Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Wilt not forget</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Her due reward,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Bless her in earth and heaven.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="indian-summer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Indian Summer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A silken curtain veils the skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And half conceals from pensive eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bronzing tokens of the fall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A calmness broods upon the hills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And summer's parting dream distils</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A charm of silence over all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The stacks of corn, in brown array,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stand waiting through the tranquil day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like tattered wigwams on the plain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tribes that find a shelter there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are phantom peoples, forms of air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And ghosts of vanished joy and pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At evening when the crimson crest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sunset passes down the West,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I hear the whispering host returning;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On far-off fields, by elm and oak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see the lights, I smell the smoke,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Camp-fires of the Past are burning.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p epub:type="z3998:signature">Tertius and Henry van Dyke.</p>
				<p>November, 1903.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="one-world" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">One World</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>
						<span>“The worlds in which we live are two:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The world ‘I am’ and the world ‘I do,’”</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The worlds in which we live at heart are one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world “I am,” the fruit of “I have done”;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And underneath these worlds of flower and fruit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world “I love,”—the only living root.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hide-and-seek" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hide and Seek</h2>
			<section id="hide-and-seek-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>All the trees are sleeping, all the winds are still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the fleecy flocks of cloud, gone beyond the hill;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the noon-day silence, down the woods of June,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hark, a little hunter's voice, running with a tune.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">“Hide and seek!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">When I speak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">You must answer me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Call again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Merry men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">“Coo-ee, coo-ee, coo-ee!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now I hear his footsteps rustling in the grass:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hidden in my leafy nook, shall I let him pass?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just a low, soft whistle,—quick the hunter turns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaps upon me laughing loud, rolls me in the ferns.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">“Hold him fast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Caught at last!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Now you're it, you see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Hide your eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Till I cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Coo-ee, coo-ee, coo-ee!”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="hide-and-seek-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Long ago he left me, long and long ago;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I wander thro' the world, seeking high and low.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hidden safe and happy, in some pleasant place,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I could but hear his voice, soon I'd see his face!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Many a day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Where can Barney be?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Answer, dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Don't you hear?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Coo-ee, coo-ee, coo-ee!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Birds that every spring-time sung him full of joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flowers he loved to pick for me, mind me of my boy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somewhere he is waiting till my steps come nigh;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love may hide itself awhile, but love can never die.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Heart, be glad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">The little lad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Will call again to thee:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">“Father dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Heaven is here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">“Coo-ee, coo-ee, coo-ee!”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1898.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="dulcis-memoria" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dulcis Memoria</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Long, long ago I heard a little song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Ah, was it long ago, or yesterday?)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So lowly, slowly wound the tune along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That far into my heart it found the way:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A melody consoling and endearing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now, in silent hours, I'm often hearing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The small, sweet song that does not die away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long, long ago I saw a little flower—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Ah, was it long ago, or yesterday?)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So fair of face and fragrant for an hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That something dear to me it seemed to say,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wordless joy that blossomed into being;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now, in winter days, I'm often seeing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The friendly flower that does not fade away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long, long ago we had a little child,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Ah, was it long ago, or yesterday?)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into his mother's eyes and mine he smiled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unconscious love; warm in our arms he lay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An angel called! Dear heart, we could not hold him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet secretly your arms and mine infold him—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our little child who does not go away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long, long ago? Ah, memory, make it clear—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(It was not long ago, but yesterday.)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So little and so helpless and so dear—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let not the song be lost, the flower decay!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His voice, his waking eyes, his gentle sleeping:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The smallest things are safest in thy keeping,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sweet memory, keep our child with us alway.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>November, 1903.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="autumn-in-the-garden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Autumn in the Garden</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When the frosty kiss of Autumn in the dark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Makes its mark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the flowers, and the misty morning grieves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Over fallen leaves;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then my olden garden, where the golden soil</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Through the toil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a hundred years is mellow, rich, and deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Whispers in its sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'Mid the crumpled beds of marigold and phlox,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Where the box</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Borders with its glossy green the ancient walks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">There's a voice that talks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the human hopes that bloomed and withered here</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Year by year,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the dreams that brightened all the labouring hours.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Fading as the flowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet the whispered story does not deepen grief;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">But relief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the loneliness of sorrow seems to flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">From the Long-Ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I think of other lives that learned, like mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">To resign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And remember that the sadness of the fall</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Comes alike to all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What regrets, what longings for the lost were theirs I</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">And what prayers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the silent strength that nerves us to endure</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Things we cannot cure!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pacing up and down the garden where they paced,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">I have traced</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All their well-worn paths of patience, till I find</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Comfort in my mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Faint and far away their ancient griefs appear:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Yet how near</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is the tender voice, the careworn, kindly face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Of the human race!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us walk together in the garden, dearest heart,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Not apart!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They who know the sorrows other lives have known</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Never walk alone.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>October, 1903.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-message" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Message</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Waking from tender sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My neighbour's little child</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Put out his baby hand to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Looked in my face, and smiled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seems as if he came</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Home from a happy land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bring a message to my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And make me understand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Somewhere, among bright dreams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A child that once was mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has whispered wordless love to him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And given him a sign.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Comfort of kindly speech,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And counsel of the wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have helped me less than what I read</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In those deep-smiling eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sleep sweetly, little friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And dream again of heaven:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With double love I kiss your hand,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your message has been given.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>November, 1903.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="light-between-the-trees" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Light Between the Trees</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Long, long, long the trail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the brooding forest-gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down the shadowy, lonely vale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into silence, like a room</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Where the light of life has fled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the jealous curtains close</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round the passionless repose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of the silent dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Plod, plod, plod away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Step by step in mouldering moss;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thick branches bar the day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Over languid streams that cross</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Softly, slowly, with a sound</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like a smothered weeping,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In their aimless creeping</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Through enchanted ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Yield, yield, yield thy quest,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whispers through the woodland deep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Come to me and be at rest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I am slumber, I am sleep.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Then the weary feet would fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But the never-daunted will</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Urges “Forward, forward still!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Press along the trail!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Breast, breast, breast the slope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">See, the path is growing steep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hark! a little song of hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the stream begins to leap.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Though the forest, far and wide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Still shuts out the bending blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We shall finally win through,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Cross the long divide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On, on, on we tramp!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will the journey never end?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over yonder lies the camp;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Welcome waits us there, my friend.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Can we reach it ere the night?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upward, upward, never fear!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Look, the summit must be near;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">See the line of light!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Red, red, red the shine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the splendour in the west,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glowing through the ranks of pine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Clear along the mountain-crest!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Long, long, long the trail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Out of sorrow's lonely vale;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But at last the traveller sees</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Light between the trees!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>March, 1904.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="reliance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Reliance</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Not to the swift, the race:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Not to the strong, the fight:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not to the righteous, perfect grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Not to the wise, the light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">But often faltering feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Come surest to the goal;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they who walk in darkness meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The sunrise of the soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">A thousand times by night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The Syrian hosts have died;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A thousand times the vanquished right</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Hath risen, glorified.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">The truth the wise men sought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Was spoken by a child;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The alabaster box was brought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">In trembling hands defiled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Not from my torch, the gleam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But from the stars above:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Not from my heart, life's crystal stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But from the depths of Love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="for-katrinas-sun-dial" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">For Katrina's Sun-Dial</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">In her garden of Yaddo</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span class="i5">Hours fly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Flowers die</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">New days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">New ways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Pass by.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Love stays.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span class="i5">Time is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too Slow for those who Wait,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too Swift for those who Fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too Long for those who Grieve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too Short for those who Rejoice;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But for those who Love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Time is not.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-james-whitcomb-riley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">To James Whitcomb Riley</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">On his “Book of Joyous Children”</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Yours is a garden of old-fashioned flowers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Joyous children delight to play there;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weary men find rest in its bowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Watching the lingering light of day there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Old-time tunes and young love-laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ripple and run among the roses;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Memory's echoes, murmuring after,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fill the dusk when the long day closes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Simple songs with a cadence olden—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">These you learned in the Forest of Arden:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Friendly flowers with hearts all golden—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">These you borrowed from Eden's garden.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is the reason why all men love you;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Truth to life is the finest art:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Other poets may soar above you—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You keep close to the human heart.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>December, 1903.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="to-mark-twain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Mark Twain</h2>
			<section id="to-mark-twain-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">At a Birthday Feast</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>With memories old and wishes new</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We crown our cups again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here's to you, and here's to you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With love that ne'er shall wane!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And may you keep, at sixty-seven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The joy of earth, the hope of heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fame well-earned, and friendship true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And peace that comforts every pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And faith that fights the battle through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all your heart's unbounded wealth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all your wit, and all your health,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, here's a hearty health to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here's to you, and here's to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long life to you, Mark Twain.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>November 30, 1902.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
			<section id="to-mark-twain-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">At the Memorial Meeting</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>We knew you well, dear Yorick of the West,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The very soul of large and friendly jest!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You loved and mocked the broad grotesque of things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this new world where all the folk are kings.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your breezy humour cleared the air, with sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of shams that haunt the democratic court;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For even where the sovereign people rule,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A human monarch needs a royal fool.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your native drawl lent flavour to your wit;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your arrows lingered but they always hit;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Homeric mirth around the circle ran,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But left no wound upon the heart of man.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We knew you kind in trouble, brave in pain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We saw your honour kept without a stain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We read this lesson of our Yorick's years,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>True wisdom comes with laughter and with tears.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>November 30, 1910.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="a-rondeau-of-college-rhymes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Rondeau of College Rhymes</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Our college rhymes,—how light they seem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Like little ghosts of love's young dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That led our boyish hearts away</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">From lectures and from books, to stray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By flowery mead and flowing stream!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There's nothing here, in form or theme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of thought sublime or art supreme:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">We would not have the critic weigh</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Our college rhymes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet if, perchance, a slender beam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of feeling's glow or fancy's gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Still lingers in the lines we lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">At Alma Mater's feet today,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The touch of Nature may redeem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Our college rhymes.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>May, 1904.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-mocking-bird" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Mocking-Bird</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In mirth he mocks the other birds at noon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Catching the lilt of every easy tune;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when the day departs he sings of love,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His own wild song beneath the listening moon.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-empty-quatrain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Empty Quatrain</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A flawless cup: how delicate and fine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flowing curve of every jewelled line!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look, turn it up or down, 'tis perfect still,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But holds no drop of life's heart-warming wine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="for-the-friends-at-hurstmont" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">For the Friends at Hurstmont</h2>
			<section id="for-the-friends-at-hurstmont-the-house">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The House</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The cornerstone in Truth is laid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The guardian walls of Honour made,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The roof of Faith is built above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fire upon the hearth is Love:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though rains descend and loud winds call,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This happy house shall never fall.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="for-the-friends-at-hurstmont-the-hearth">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Hearth</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When the logs are burning free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the fire is full of glee:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When each heart gives out its best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the talk is full of zest:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Light your fire and never fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Life was made for love and cheer.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="for-the-friends-at-hurstmont-the-door">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Door</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The lintel low enough to keep out pomp and pride:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The threshold high enough to turn deceit aside:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fastening strong enough from robbers to defend:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This door will open at a touch to welcome every friend.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="for-the-friends-at-hurstmont-the-dial">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Dial</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Time can never take</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What Time did not give;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When my shadows have all passed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You shall live.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="the-statue-of-sherman-by-st-gaudens" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Statue of Sherman by St. Gaudens</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This is the soldier brave enough to tell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glory-dazzled world that “war is hell”:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lover of peace, he looks beyond the strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rides through hell to save his country's life.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>April, 1904.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-sun-dial-at-wells-college" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Sun-Dial at Wells College</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">For the class of 1904</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The shadow by my finger cast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Divides the future from the past:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before it, sleeps the unborn hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In darkness, and beyond thy power:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behind its unreturning line,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vanished hour, no longer thine:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One hour alone is in thy hands,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The NOW on which the shadow stands.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>March, 1904.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-white-bees" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The White Bees</h2>
			<section id="the-white-bees-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Legend</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Long ago Apollo called to Aristæus, youngest of the shepherds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Saying, “I will make you keeper of my bees.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Golden were the hives and golden was the honey; golden, too, the music</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where the honey-makers hummed among the trees.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Happy Aristæus loitered in the garden, wandered in the orchard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Careless and contented, indolent and free;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lightly took his labour, lightly took his pleasure, till the fated moment</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When across his pathway came Eurydice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then her eyes enkindled burning love within him; drove him wild with longing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the perfect sweetness of her flower-like face;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eagerly he followed, while she fled before him, over mead and mountain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On through field and forest, in a breathless race.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the nymph, in flying, trod upon a serpent; like a dream she vanished;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pluto's chariot bore her down among the dead!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lonely Aristæus, sadly home returning, found his garden empty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All the hives deserted, all the music fled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mournfully bewailing,—“Ah, my honey-makers, where have you departed?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Far and wide he sought them over sea and shore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foolish is the tale that says he ever found them, brought them home in triumph,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Joys that once escape us fly for evermore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet I dream that somewhere, clad in downy whiteness, dwell the honey-makers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In aërial gardens that no mortal sees:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at times returning, lo, they flutter round us, gathering mystic harvest,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So I weave the legend of the long-lost bees.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-white-bees-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Swarming of the Bees</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Who can tell the hiding of the white bees' nest?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who can trace the guiding of their swift home flight?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far would be his riding on a life-long quest:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Surely ere it ended would his beard grow white.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Never in the coming of the rose-red Spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Never in the passing of the wine-red Fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May you hear the humming of the white bee's wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Murmur o'er the meadow ere the night bells call.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wait till winter hardens in the cold gray sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wait till leaves are fallen and the brooks all freeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then above the gardens where the dead flowers lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swarm the merry millions of the wild white bees.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">Out of the high-built airy hive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Deep in the clouds that veil the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Look how the first of the swarm arrive;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Timidly venturing, one by one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Down through the tranquil air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Wavering here and there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Large, and lazy in flight,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Caught by a lift of the breeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Tangled among the naked trees,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Dropping then, without a sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Feather-white, feather-light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">To their rest on the ground.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">Thus the swarming is begun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Count the leaders, every one</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Perfect as a perfect star</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Till the slow descent is done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Look beyond them, see how far</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Down the vistas dim and gray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Multitudes are on the way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Now a sudden brightness</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Dawns within the sombre day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Over fields of whiteness;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">And the sky is swiftly alive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">With the flutter and the flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Of the shimmering bees, that pour</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">From the hidden door of the hive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Till you can count no more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now on the branches of hemlock and pine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thickly they settle and cluster and swing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bending them low; and the trellised vine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the dark elm-boughs are traced with a line</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of beauty wherever the white bees cling.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now they are hiding the wrecks of the flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Softly, softly, covering all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the grave of the summer hours</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Spreading a silver pall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now they are building the broad roof ledge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into a cornice smooth and fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moulding the terrace, from edge to edge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the sweep of a marble stair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wonderful workers, swift and dumb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Numberless myriads, still they come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thronging ever faster, faster, faster!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where is their queen? Who is their master?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gardens are faded, the fields are frore,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is the honey they toil to store</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the desolate day, where no blossoms gleam?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Forgetfulness and a dream!</em>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But now the fretful wind awakes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear him girding at the trees;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He strikes the bending boughs, and shakes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The quiet clusters of the bees</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To powdery drift;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He tosses them away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He drives them like spray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He makes them veer and shift</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Around his blustering path.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In clouds blindly whirling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In rings madly swirling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Full of crazy wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So furious and fast they fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They blur the earth and blot the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In wild, white mirk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They fill the air with frozen wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tiny, angry, icy stings;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They blind the eyes, and choke the breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They dance a maddening dance of death</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Around their work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweeping the cover from the hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heaping the hollows deeper still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Effacing every line and mark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swarming, storming in the dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Through the long night;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until, at dawn, the wind lies down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Weary of fight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The last torn cloud, with trailing gown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passes the open gates of light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the white bees are lost in flight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Look how the landscape glitters wide and still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Bright with a pure surprise!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The day begins with joy, and all past ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Buried in white oblivion, lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the snow-drifts under crystal skies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New hope, new love, new life, new cheer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flow in the sunrise beam,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The gladness of Apollo when he sees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the bosom of the wintry year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The honey-harvest of his wild white bees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Forgetfulness and a dream!</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-white-bees-3">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Legend</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Listen, my beloved, while the silver morning, like a tranquil vision,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fills the world around us and our hearts with peace;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quiet is the close of Aristæus' legend, happy is the ending—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Listen while I tell you how he found release.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Many months he wandered far away in sadness, desolately thinking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Only of the vanished joys he could not find;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the great Apollo, pitying his shepherd, loosed him from the burden</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of a dark, reluctant, backward-looking mind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he saw around him all the changeful beauty of the changing seasons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the world-wide regions where his journey lay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Birds that sang to cheer him, flowers that bloomed beside him, stars that shone to guide him,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Traveller's joy was plenty all along the way!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Everywhere he journeyed strangers made him welcome, listened while he taught them</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Secret lore of field and forest he had learned:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How to train the vines and make the olives fruitful; how to guard the sheepfolds;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How to stay the fever when the dog-star burned.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Friendliness and blessing followed in his footsteps; richer were the harvests,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Happier the dwellings, wheresoe'er he came;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Little children loved him, and he left behind him, in the hour of parting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Memories of kindness and a god-like name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So he travelled onward, desolate no longer, patient in his seeking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Reaping all the wayside comfort of his quest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till at last in Thracia, high upon Mount Hæmus, far from human dwelling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Weary Aristæus laid him down to rest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then the honey-makers, clad in downy whiteness, fluttered soft around him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wrapt him in a dreamful slumber pure and deep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is life, beloved: first a sheltered garden, then a troubled journey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Joy and pain of seeking,—and at last we sleep!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1905.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="new-years-eve" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">New Year's Eve</h2>
			<section id="new-years-eve-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The other night I had a dream, most clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And comforting, complete</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In every line, a crystal sphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And full of intimate and secret cheer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therefore I will repeat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That vision, dearest heart, to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As of a thing not feigned, but very true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, true as ever in my life befell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you, perhaps, can tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whether my dream was really sad or sweet.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="new-years-eve-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The shadows flecked the elm-embowered street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knew so well, long, long ago;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on the pillared porch where Marguerite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had sat with me, the moonlight lay like snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she, my comrade and my friend of youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Most gaily wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Most innocently loved,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She of the blue-gray eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ever smiled and ever spoke the truth,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From that familiar dwelling, where she moved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like mirth incarnate in the years before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had gone into the hidden house of Death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought the garden wore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>White mourning for her blessed innocence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the syringa's breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came from the corner by the fence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where she had made her rustic seat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fragrance passionate, intense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if it breathed a sigh for Marguerite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart was heavy with a sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of something good for ever gone. I sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vainly for some consoling thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some comfortable word that I could say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To her sad father, whom I visited again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the first time since she had gone away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bell rang shrill and lonely,—then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The door was opened, and I sent my name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him,—but ah! 'twas Marguerite who came!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There in the dear old dusky room she stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the lamp, just as she used to stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In tender mocking mood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You did not ask for me,” she said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And so I will not let you take my hand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I must hear what secret talk you planned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With father. Come, my friend, be good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tell me your affairs of state:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why you have stayed away and made me wait</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So long. Sit down beside me here,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, do you know, it seems a year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since we have talked together,—why so late?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amazed, incredulous, confused with joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hardly dared to show,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stammering like a boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I took the place she showed me at her side;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the talk flowed on with brimming tide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the still night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While she with influence light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Controlled it, as the moon the flood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She knew where I had been, what I had done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What work was planned, and what begun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My troubles, failures, fears she understood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And touched them with a heart so kind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That every care was melted from my mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every hope grew bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And life seemed moving on to happy ends.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Ah, what self-beggared fool was he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That said a woman cannot be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The very best of friends?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then there were memories of old times,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recalled with many a gentle jest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at the last she brought the book of rhymes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We made together, trying to translate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Songs of Heine (hers were always best).</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Now come,” she said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“To-night we will collaborate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again; I'll put you to the test.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here's one I never found the way to do,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The simplest are the hardest ones, you know,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I give this song to you.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then she read:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">
						<i xml:lang="de">Mein Kind, wir waren Kinder,</i>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">
						<i xml:lang="de">Zwei Kinder, jung und froh.</i>
					</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>But all the while, a silent question stirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within me, though I dared not speak the word:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Is it herself, and is she truly here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was I dreaming when I heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That she was dead last year?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or was it true, and is she but a shade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who brings a fleeting joy to eye and ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cold though so kind, and will she gently fade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When her sweet ghostly part is played</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the light-curtain falls at dawn of day?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But while my heart was troubled by this fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So deeply that I could not speak it out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest all my happiness should disappear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought me of a cunning way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hide the question and dissolve the doubt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Will you not give me now your hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear Marguerite,” I asked, “to touch and hold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That by this token I may understand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are the same true friend you were of old?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She answered with a smile so bright and calm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seemed as if I saw the morn arise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the deep heaven of her eyes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And smiling so, she laid her palm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mine. Dear God, it was not cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But warm with vital heat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You live!” I cried, “you live, dear Marguerite!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I awoke; but strangely comforted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although I knew again that she was dead.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="new-years-eve-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, there's the dream! And was it sweet or sad?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear mistress of my waking and my sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Present reward of all my heart's desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watching with me beside the winter fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interpret now this vision that I had.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But while you read the meaning, let me keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The touch of you: for the Old Year with storm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is passing through the midnight, and doth shake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The corners of the house,—and oh! my heart would break</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless both dreaming and awake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My hand could feel your hand was warm, warm, warm!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1905.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="sea-gulls-of-manhattan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sea-Gulls of Manhattan</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Children of the elemental mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Born upon some lonely island shore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the wrinkled ripples run and whisper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the crested billows plunge and roar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long-winged, tireless roamers and adventurers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fearless breasters of the wind and sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the far-off solitary places</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I have seen you floating wild and free!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here the high-built cities rise around you;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here the cliffs that tower east and west,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Honeycombed with human habitations,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have no hiding for the sea-bird's nest:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here the river flows begrimed and troubled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here the hurrying, panting vessels fume,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Restless, up and down the watery highway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While a thousand chimneys vomit gloom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Toil and tumult, conflict and confusion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Clank and clamour of the vast machine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Human hands have built for human bondage—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet amid it all you float serene;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Circling, soaring, sailing, swooping lightly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Down to glean your harvest from the wave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In your heritage of air and water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You have kept the freedom Nature gave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Even so the wild-woods of Manhattan</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Saw your wheeling flocks of white and gray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even so you fluttered, followed, floated,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round the <i>Half-Moon</i> creeping up the bay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even so your voices creaked and chattered.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Laughing shrilly o'er the tidal rips,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While your black and beady eyes were glistening</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round the sullen British prison-ships.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Children of the elemental mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fearless floaters 'mid the double blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the crowded boats that cross the ferries</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Many a longing heart goes out to you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though the cities climb and close around us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Something tells us that our souls are free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the sea-gulls fly above the harbour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While the river flows to meet the sea!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>December, 1905.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="urbs-coronata" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Urbs Coronata</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">(Song for the City College of New York)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>O youngest of the giant brood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of cities far-renowned;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In wealth and glory thou hast passed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy rivals at a bound;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art a mighty queen, New York;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And how wilt thou be crowned?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Weave me no palace-wreath of Pride,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The royal city said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Nor forge of frowning fortress-walls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A helmet for my head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But let me wear a diadem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of Wisdom's towers instead.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She bowed herself, she spent herself,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She wrought her will forsooth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And set upon her island height</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A citadel of Truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A house of Light, a home of Thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A shrine of noble Youth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Stand here, ye City College towers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And look both up and down;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember all who wrought for you</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within the toiling town;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember all their hopes for you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And <em>be</em> the City's Crown.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>June, 1908.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="america" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">America</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I love thine inland seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy groves of giant trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy rolling plains;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy rivers' mighty sweep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy mystic canyons deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy mountains wild and steep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All thy domains;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thy silver Eastern strands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy Golden Gate that stands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wide to the West;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy flowery Southland fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sweet and crystal air,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O land beyond compare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thee I love best!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>March, 1906.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="doors-of-daring" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Doors of Daring</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The mountains that inclose the vale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With walls of granite, steep and high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Invite the fearless foot to scale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their stairway toward the sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The restless, deep, dividing sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That flows and foams from shore to shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Calls to its sunburned chivalry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Push out, set sail, explore!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The bars of life at which we fret,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That seem to prison and control,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are but the doors of daring, set</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ajar before the soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Say not, “Too poor,” but freely give;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sigh not, “Too weak,” but boldly try;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You never can begin to live</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until you dare to die.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-home-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Home Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I read within a poet's book</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A word that starred the page:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Stone walls do not a prison make,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor iron bars a cage!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, that is true, and something more:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You'll find, where'er you roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That marble floors and gilded walls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Can never make a home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But every house where Love abides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Friendship is a guest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is surely home, and home-sweet-home:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For there the heart can rest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-noon-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Noon Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There are songs for the morning and songs for the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For sunrise and sunset, the stars and the moon;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But who will give praise to the fulness of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sing us a song of the glory of noon?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Oh, the high noon, the clear noon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">The noon with golden crest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">When the blue sky burns, and the great sun turns</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">With his face to the way of the west!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How swiftly he rose in the dawn of his strength!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How slowly he crept as the morning wore by!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, steep was the climbing that led him at length</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the height of his throne in the wide summer sky.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Oh, the long toil, the slow toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">The toil that may not rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Till the sun looks down from his journey's crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">To the wonderful way of the west!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then a quietness falls over meadow and hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wings of the wind in the forest are furled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The river runs softly, the birds are all still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The workers are resting all over the world.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Oh, the good hour, the kind hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">The hour that calms the breast!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Little inn half-way on the road of the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Where it follows the turn to the west!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There's a plentiful feast in the maple-tree shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The lilt of a song to an old-fashioned tune,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The talk of a friend, or the kiss of a maid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To sweeten the cup that we drink to the noon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Oh, the deep noon, the full noon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Of all the day the best!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">When the blue sky burns, and the great sun turns</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">To his home by the way of the west!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1906.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="america-for-me" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“America for Me”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>'Tis fine to see the Old World, and travel up and down</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among the famous palaces and cities of renown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To admire the crumbly castles and the statues of the kings,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now I think I've had enough of antiquated things.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>So it's home again, and home again, America for me!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>My heart is turning home again, and there I long to be,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>In the land of youth and freedom beyond the ocean bars,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, London is a man's town, there's power in the air;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Paris is a woman's town, with flowers in her hair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it's sweet to dream in Venice, and it's great to study Rome;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when it comes to living there is no place like home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I like the German fir-woods, in green battalions drilled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I like the gardens of Versailles with flashing fountains filled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, oh, to take your hand, my dear, and ramble for a day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the friendly western woodland where Nature has her way!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I know that Europe's wonderful, yet something seems to lack:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Past is too much with her, and the people looking back.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the glory of the Present is to make the Future free,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We love our land for what she is and what she is to be.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Oh, it's home again, and home again, America for me!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>I want a ship that's westward bound to plough the rolling sea,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>To the blessèd Land of Room Enough beyond the ocean bars,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>June, 1909.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ancestral-dwellings" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Ancestral Dwellings</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Dear to my heart are the ancestral dwellings of America,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dearer than if they were haunted by ghosts of royal splendour;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are simple enough to be great in their friendly dignity,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Homes that were built by the brave beginners of a nation.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I love the old white farmhouses nestled in New England valleys,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ample and long and low, with elm-trees feathering over them:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Borders of box in the yard, and lilacs, and old-fashioned roses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fan-light above the door, and little square panes in the windows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wood-shed piled with maple and birch and hickory ready for winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gambrel-roof with its garret crowded with household relics,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the tokens of prudent thrift and the spirit of self-reliance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I love the weather-beaten, shingled houses that front the ocean;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They seem to grow out of the rocks, there is something indomitable about them:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their backs are bowed, and their sides are covered with lichens;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soft in their colour as gray pearls, they are full of a patient courage.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Facing the briny wind on a lonely shore they stand undaunted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the thin blue pennant of smoke from the square-built chimney</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tells of a haven for man, with room for a hearth and a cradle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I love the stately southern mansions with their tall white columns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They look through avenues of trees, over fields where the cotton is growing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I can see the flutter of white frocks along their shady porches,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Music and laughter float from the windows, the yards are full of hounds and horses.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long since the riders have ridden away, yet the houses have not forgotten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are proud of their name and place, and their doors are always open,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the thing they remember best is the pride of their ancient hospitality.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the towns I love the discreet and tranquil Quaker dwellings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With their demure brick faces and immaculate marble doorsteps;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the gabled houses of the Dutch, with their high stoops and iron railings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(I can see their little brass knobs shining in the morning sunlight);</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the solid self-contained houses of the descendants of the Puritans,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Frowning on the street with their narrow doors and dormer-windows;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the triple-galleried, many-pillared mansions of Charleston,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Standing open sideways in their gardens of roses and magnolias.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, they are all dear to my heart, and in my eyes they are beautiful;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For under their roofs were nourished the thoughts that have made the nation;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glory and strength of America come from her ancestral dwellings.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>July, 1909.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-monument-of-francis-makemie" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Monument of Francis Makemie</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">(Presbyter of Christ in America, 1683-1708)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>To thee, plain hero of a rugged race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We bring the meed of praise too long delayed!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy fearless word and faithful work have made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For God's Republic firmer resting-place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this New World: for thou hast preached the grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And power of Christ in many a forest glade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Teaching the truth that leaves men unafraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of frowning tyranny or death's dark face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, who can tell how much we owe to thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Makemie, and to labour such as thine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For all that makes America the shrine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of faith untrammelled and of conscience free?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stand here, gray stone, and consecrate the sod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where rests this brave Scotch-Irish man of God!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>April, 1908.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="national-monuments" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">National Monuments</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Count not the cost of honour to the dead!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tribute that a mighty nation pays</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To those who loved her well in former days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Means more than gratitude for glories fled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For every noble man that she hath bred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lives in the bronze and marble that we raise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Immortalised by art's immortal praise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lead our sons as he our fathers led.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These monuments of manhood strong and high</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do more than forts or battle-ships to keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our dear-bought liberty. They fortify</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The heart of youth with valour wise and deep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They build eternal bulwarks, and command</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Immortal hosts to guard our native land.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>February, 1905.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="mother-earth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mother Earth</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Mother of all the high-strung poets and singers departed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mother of all the grass that weaves over their graves the glory of the field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mother of all the manifold forms of life, deep-bosomed, patient, impassive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silent brooder and nurse of lyrical joys and sorrows!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of thee, yea, surely out of the fertile depth below thy breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Issued in some strange way, thou lying motionless, voiceless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All these songs of nature, rhythmical, passionate, yearning.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Coming in music from earth, but not unto earth returning.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dust are the blood-red hearts that beat in time to these measures,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast taken them back to thyself, secretly, irresistibly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drawing the crimson currents of life down, down, down</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deep into thy bosom again, as a river is lost in the sand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the souls of the singers have entered into the songs that revealed them,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Passionate songs, immortal songs of joy and grief and love and longing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Floating from heart to heart of thy children, they echo above thee:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do they not utter thy heart, the voices of those that love thee?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long hadst thou lain like a queen transformed by some old enchantment</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into an alien shape, mysterious, beautiful, speechless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knowing not who thou wert, till the touch of thy Lord and Lover</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wakened the man-child within thee to tell thy secret.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All of thy flowers and birds and forests and flowing waters</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are but the rhythmical forms to reveal the life of the spirit;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou thyself, earth-mother, in mountain and meadow and ocean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Holdest the poem of God, eternal thought and emotion.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>December, 1905.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="milton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Milton</h2>
			<section id="milton-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lover of beauty, walking on the height</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of pure philosophy and tranquil song;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Born to behold the visions that belong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To those who dwell in melody and light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Milton, thou spirit delicate and bright!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What drew thee down to join the Roundhead throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of iron-sided warriors, rude and strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fighting for freedom in a world half night?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lover of Liberty at heart wast thou,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above all beauty bright, all music clear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To thee she bared her bosom and her brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Breathing her virgin promise in thine ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bound thee to her with a double vow,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Exquisite Puritan, grave Cavalier!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="milton-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The cause, the cause for which thy soul resigned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her singing robes to battle on the plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was won, O poet, and was lost again;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lost the labour of thy lonely mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On weary tasks of prose. What wilt thou find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To comfort thee for all the toil and pain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What solace, now thy sacrifice is vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou art left forsaken, poor, and blind?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like organ-music comes the deep reply:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“The cause of truth looks lost, but shall be won.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For God hath given to mine inward eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Vision of England soaring to the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And granted me great peace before I die,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In thoughts of lowly duty bravely done.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="milton-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O bend again above thine organ-board,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou blind old poet longing for repose!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy Master claims thy service not with those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who only stand and wait for His reward;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He pours the heavenly gift of song restored</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into thy breast, and bids thee nobly close</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A noble life, with poetry that flows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mighty music of the major chord.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where hast thou learned this deep, majestic strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Surpassing all thy youthful lyric grace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sing of Paradise? Ah, not in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The griefs that won at Dante's side thy place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made thee, Milton, by thy years of pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The loftiest poet of the English race!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1908.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="wordsworth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Wordsworth</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Wordsworth, thy music like a river rolls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Among the mountains, and thy song is fed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By living springs far up the watershed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No whirling flood nor parching drought controls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The crystal current: even on the shoals</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It murmurs clear and sweet; and when its bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deepens below mysterious cliffs of dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy voice of peace grows deeper in our souls.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But thou in youth hast known the breaking stress</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of passion, and hast trod despair's dry ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Beneath black thoughts that wither and destroy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, wanderer, led by human tenderness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Home to the heart of Nature, thou hast found</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The hidden Fountain of Recovered Joy.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>October, 1906.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="keats" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Keats</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The melancholy gift Aurora gained</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From Jove, that her sad lover should not see</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The face of death, no goddess asked for thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My Keats! But when the scarlet blood-drop stained</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy pillow, thou didst read the fate ordained,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brief life, wild love, a flight of poesy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And then,—a shadow fell on Italy:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy star went down before its brightness waned.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet thou hast won the gift Tithonus missed:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Never to feel the pain of growing old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nor lose the blissful sight of beauty's truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with the ardent lips Urania kissed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To breathe thy song, and, ere thy heart grew cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Become the Poet of Immortal Youth.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>August, 1906.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="shelley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Shelley</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Knight-errant of the Never-ending Quest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Minstrel of the Unfulfilled Desire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For ever tuning thy frail earthly lyre</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To some unearthly music, and possessed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With painful passionate longing to invest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The golden dream of Love's immortal fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With mortal robes of beautiful attire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fold perfection to thy throbbing breast!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What wonder, Shelley, that the restless wave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Should claim thee and the leaping flame consume</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thy drifted form on Viareggio's beach?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These were thine elements,—thy fitting grave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But still thy soul rides on with fiery plume,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thy wild song rings in ocean's yearning speech!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>August, 1906.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="robert-browning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Robert Browning</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How blind the toil that burrows like the mole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In winding graveyard pathways underground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For Browning's lineage! What if men have found</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poor footmen or rich merchants on the roll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of his forbears? Did they beget his soul?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nay, for he came of ancestry renowned</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through all the world,—the poets laurel-crowned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With wreaths from which the autumn takes no toll.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The blazons on his coat-of-arms are these:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The flaming sign of Shelley's heart on fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The golden globe of Shakespeare's human stage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The staff and scrip of Chaucer's pilgrimage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The rose of Dante's deep, divine desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tragic mask of wise Euripides.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>November, 1906.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="longfellow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Longfellow</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In a great land, a new land, a land full of labour and riches and confusion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where there were many running to and fro, and shouting, and striving together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the midst of the hurry and the troubled noise, I heard the voice of one singing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“What are you doing there, O man, singing quietly amid all this tumult?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is the time for new inventions, mighty shoutings, and blowings of the trumpet.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he answered, “I am only shepherding my sheep with music.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So he went along his chosen way, keeping his little flock around him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he paused to listen, now and then, beside the antique fountains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the faces of forgotten gods were refreshed with musically falling waters;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Or he sat for a while at the blacksmith's door, and heard the cling-clang of the anvils;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or he rested beneath old steeples full of bells, that showered their chimes upon him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or he walked along the border of the sea, drinking in the long roar of the billows;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Or he sunned himself in the pine-scented shipyard, amid the tattoo of the mallets;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or he leaned on the rail of the bridge, letting his thoughts flow with the whispering river;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hearkened also to ancient tales, and made them young again with his singing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then a flaming arrow of death fell on his flock, and pierced the heart of his dearest!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silent the music now, as the shepherd entered the mystical temple of sorrow:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long he tarried in darkness there: but when he came out he was singing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I saw the faces of men and women and children silently turning toward him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The youth setting out on the journey of life, and the old man waiting beside the last mile-stone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The toiler sweating beneath his load; and the happy mother rocking her cradle;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The lonely sailor on far-off seas; and the gray-minded scholar in his book-room;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mill-hand bound to a clacking machine; and the hunter in the forest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the solitary soul hiding friendless in the wilderness of the city;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Many human faces, full of care and longing, were drawn irresistibly toward him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the charm of something known to every heart, yet very strange and lovely,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And at the sound of his singing wonderfully all their faces were lightened.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Why do you listen, O you people, to this old and world-worn music?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is not for you, in the splendour of a new age, in the democratic triumph!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listen to the clashing cymbals, the big drums, the brazen trumpets of your poets.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the people made no answer, following in their hearts the simpler music:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it seemed to them, noise-weary, nothing could be better worth the hearing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than the melodies which brought sweet order into life's confusion.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So the shepherd sang his way along, until he came unto a mountain:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I know not surely whether the mountain was called Parnassus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he climbed it out of sight, and still I heard the voice of one singing.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>January, 1907.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="thomas-bailey-aldrich" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thomas Bailey Aldrich</h2>
			<section id="thomas-bailey-aldrich-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Birthday Verses, 1906</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Aldrich, now November's mellow days</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have brought another <em>Festa</em> round to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You can't refuse a loving-cup of praise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From friends the fleeting years have bound to you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Here come your Marjorie Daw, your dear Bad Boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Prudence, and Judith the Bethulian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many more, to wish you birthday joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sunny hours, and sky cerulean!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your children all, they hurry to your den,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With wreaths of honour they have won for you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To merry-make your threescore years and ten.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You, old? Why, life has just begun for you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There's many a reader whom your silver songs</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And crystal stories cheer in loneliness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What though the newer writers come in throngs?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You're sure to keep your charm of only-ness.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You do your work with careful, loving touch,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An artist to the very core of you,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know the magic spell of “not-too-much”:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We read,—and wish that there was more of you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And more there is: for while we love your books</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because their subtle skill is part of you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We love <em>you</em> better, for our friendship looks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Behind them to the human heart of you.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="thomas-bailey-aldrich-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Memorial Sonnet, 1908</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>This is the house where little Aldrich read</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The early pages of Life's wonder-book</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With boyish pleasure: in this ingle-nook</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He watched the drift-wood fire of Fancy shed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bright colour on the pictures blue and red:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Boy-like he skipped the longer words, and took</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His happy way, with searching, dreamful look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the deeper things more simply said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then, came his turn to write: and still the flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Fancy played through all the tales he told,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still he won the laurelled poet's fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With simple words wrought into rhymes of gold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look, here's the face to which this house is frame,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A man too wise to let his heart grow old!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="edmund-clarence-stedman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Edmund Clarence Stedman</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">(Read at His Funeral, January 21, 1908)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, quick to feel the lightest touch</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of beauty or of truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rich in the thoughtfulness of age,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The hopefulness of youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The courage of the gentle heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wisdom of the pure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The strength of finely tempered souls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To labour and endure!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The blue of springtime in your eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was never quenched by pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And winter brought your head the crown</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of snow without a stain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poet's mind, the prince's heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You kept until the end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor ever faltered in your work,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor ever failed a friend.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You followed, through the quest of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The light that shines above</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tumult and the toil of men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And shows us what to love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Right loyal to the best you knew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Reality or dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You ran the race, you fought the fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A follower of the Gleam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We lay upon your folded hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wreath of asphodel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We speak above your peaceful face</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tender word <em>Farewell!</em></span>
				<br/>
				<span>For well you fare, in God's good care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Somewhere within the blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And know, to-day, your dearest dreams</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are true,—and true,—and true!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="spring-in-the-north" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Spring in the North</h2>
			<section id="spring-in-the-north-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, who will tell me, in these leaden days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why the sweet Spring delays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And where she hides,—the dear desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of every heart that longs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For bloom, and fragrance, and the ruby fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of maple-buds along the misty hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that immortal call which fills</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The waiting wood with songs?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The snow-drops came so long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It seemed that Spring was near!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But then returned the snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With biting winds, and earth grew sere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sullen clouds drooped low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To veil the sadness of a hope deferred:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then rain, rain, rain, incessant rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beat on the window-pane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through which I watched the solitary bird</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That braved the tempest, buffeted and tossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With rumpled feathers down the wind again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Oh, were the seeds all lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When winter laid the wild flowers in their tomb?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I searched the woods in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For blue hepaticas, and trilliums white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And trailing arbutus, the Spring's delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Starring the withered leaves with rosy bloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But every night the frost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all my longing spoke a silent nay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And told me Spring was far away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even the robins were too cold to sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except a broken and discouraged note,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only the tuneful sparrow, on whose throat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Music has put her triple finger-print,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifted his head and sang my heart a hint,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Wait, wait, wait! oh, wait a while for Spring!”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="spring-in-the-north-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But now, Carina, what divine amends</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all delay! What sweetness treasured up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What wine of joy that blends</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hundred flavours in a single cup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is poured into this perfect day!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For look, sweet heart, here are the early flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That lingered on their way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thronging in haste to kiss the feet of May,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entangled with the bloom of later hours,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anemones and cinque-foils, violets blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And white, and iris richly gleaming through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grasses of the meadow, and a blaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of butter-cups and daisies in the field,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Filling the air with praise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if a chime of golden bells had pealed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The frozen songs within the breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of silent birds that hid in leafless woods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Melt into rippling floods</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of gladness unrepressed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now oriole and bluebird, thrush and lark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warbler and wren and vireo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mingle their melody; the living spark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Love has touched the fuel of desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every heart leaps up in singing fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It seems as if the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were breathing deep beneath the sun's caress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Trembling with tenderness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While all the woods expand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In shimmering clouds of rose and gold and green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To veil a joy too sacred to be seen.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="spring-in-the-north-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Come, put your hand in mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>True love, long sought and found at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lead me deep into the Spring divine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That makes amends for all the wintry past.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all the flowers and songs I feared to miss</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Arrive with you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the lingering pressure of your kiss</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">My dreams come true;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the promise of your generous eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I read the mystic sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of joy more perfect made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Because so long delayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bliss enhanced by rapture of surprise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, think not early love alone is strong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He loveth best whose heart has learned to wait:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear messenger of Spring that tarried long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You're doubly dear because you come so late.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="nepenthe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Nepenthe</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, it was like you to forget,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cancel in the welcome of your smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My deep arrears of debt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with the putting forth of both your hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sweep away the bars my folly set</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Between us—bitter thoughts, and harsh demands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And reckless deeds that seemed untrue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To love, when all the while</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart was aching through and through</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For you, sweet heart, and only you.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet, as I turned to come to you again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thought there must be many a mile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sorrowful reproach to cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And many an hour of mutual pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bear, until I could make plain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That all my pride was but the fear of loss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all my doubt the shadow of despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To win a heart so innocent and fair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And even that which looked most ill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was but the fever-fret and effort vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To dull the thirst which you alone could still.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But as I turned, the desert miles were crossed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when I came, the weary hours were sped!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there you stood beside the open door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glad, gracious, smiling as before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with bright eyes and tender hands outspread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Restored me to the Eden I had lost.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never a word of cold reproof,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No sharp reproach, no glances that accuse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The culprit whom they hold aloof,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, 'tis not thus that other women use</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The empire they have won!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there is none like you, beloved,—none</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Secure enough to do what you have done.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where did you learn this heavenly art,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You sweetest and most wise of all that live,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With silent welcome to impart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Assurance of the royal heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That never questions where it would forgive?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>None but a queen could pardon me like this!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My sovereign lady, let me lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within each rosy palm a loyal kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of penitence, then close the fingers up,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus—thus! Now give the cup</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of full nepenthe in your crimson mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And come—the garden blooms with bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wind is in the south,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rose of love with dew is wet—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dear, it was like you to forget!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hesper" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hesper</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Her eyes are like the evening air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her voice is like a rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her lips are like a lovely song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That ripples as it flows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she herself is sweeter than</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sweetest thing she knows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A slender, haunting, twilight form</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of wonder and surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She seemed a fairy or a child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till, deep within her eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I saw the homeward-leading star</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of womanhood arise.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="arrival" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Arrival</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Across a thousand miles of sea, a hundred leagues of land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along a path I had not traced and could not understand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I travelled fast and far for this,—to take thee by the hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A pilgrim knowing not the shrine where he would bend his knee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A mariner without a dream of what his port would be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So fared I with a seeking heart until I came to thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O cooler than a grove of palm in some heat-weary place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O fairer than an isle of calm after the wild sea race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The quiet room adorned with flowers where first I saw thy face!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then furl the sail, let fall the oar, forget the paths of foam!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fate that made me wander far at last has brought me home</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To thee, dear haven of my heart, and I no more will roam.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="departure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Departure</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, why are you shining so bright, big Sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And why is the garden so gay?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do you know that my days of delight are done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do you know I am going away?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you covered your face with a cloud, I'd dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You were sorry for me in my pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the heavily drooping flowers would seem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To be weeping with me in the rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But why is your head so low, sweet heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And why are your eyes overcast?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are you crying because you know we must part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do you think this embrace is our last?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then kiss me again, and again, and again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Look up as you bid me good-bye!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your face is too dear for the stain of a tear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And your smile is the sun in my sky.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-black-birds" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Black Birds</h2>
			<section id="the-black-birds-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once, only once, I saw it clear,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Eden every human heart has dreamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hundred times, but always far away!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, well do I remember how it seemed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the still atmosphere</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that enchanted day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lie wide open to my weary feet:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little land of love and joy and rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With meadows of soft green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rosy with cyclamen, and sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With delicate breath of violets unseen,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, tranquil 'mid the bloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if it waited for a coming guest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little house of peace and joy and love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was nested like a snow-white dove.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-black-birds-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>From the rough mountain where I stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Homesick for happiness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only a narrow valley and a darkling wood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cross, and then the long distress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of solitude would be forever past,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I should be home at last.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not too soon! oh, let me linger here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And feed my eyes, hungry with sorrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On all this loveliness, so near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mine to-morrow!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-black-birds-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Then, from the wood, across the silvery blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dark bird flew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent, with sable wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Close in his wake another came,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fragments of midnight floating through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sunset flame,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another and another, weaving rings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of blackness on the primrose sky,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another, and another, look, a score,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hundred, yes, a thousand rising heavily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From that accursed, dumb, and ancient wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They boiled into the lucid air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like smoke from some deep caldron of despair!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And more, and more, and ever more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The numberless, ill-omened brood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flapping their ragged plumes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Possessed the landscape and the evening light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With menaces and glooms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, dark, dark, dark they hovered o'er the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where once I saw the little house so white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid the flowers, covering every trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of beauty from my troubled sight,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And suddenly it was night!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-black-birds-4">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>At break of day I crossed the wooded vale;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And while the morning made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A trembling light among the tree-tops pale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw the sable birds on every limb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clinging together closely in the shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And croaking placidly their surly hymn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, oh, the little land of peace and love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That those night-loving wings had poised above,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where was it gone?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lost, lost, forevermore!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only a cottage, dull and gray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the cold light of dawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With iron bars across the door:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only a garden where the drooping head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of one sad rose, foreboding its decay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hung o'er a barren bed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only a desolate field that lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Untilled beneath the desolate day,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Eden seemed to bloom I found but these!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, wondering, I passed along my way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With anger in my heart, too deep for words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against that grove of evil-sheltering trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the black magic of the croaking birds.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="without-disguise" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Without Disguise</h2>
			<p>
				<span>If I have erred in showing all my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And lost your favour by a lack of pride;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If standing like a beggar at your side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With naked feet, I have forgot the art</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of those who bargain well in passion's mart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And win the thing they want by what they hide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Be mine the fault as mine the hope denied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be mine the lover's and the loser's part.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sin, if sin it was, I do repent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And take the penance on myself alone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet after I have borne the punishment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I shall not fear to stand before the throne</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Love with open heart, and make this plea:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“At least I have not lied to her nor Thee!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gratitude" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gratitude</h2>
			<p>
				<span>“Do you give thanks for this?—or that?” No, God be thanked</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">I am not grateful</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In that cold, calculating way, with blessings ranked</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As one, two, three, and four,—that would be hateful.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I only know that every day brings good above</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">My poor deserving;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I only feel that in the road of Life true Love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is leading me along and never swerving.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Whatever gifts and mercies to my lot may fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">I would not measure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As worth a certain price in praise, or great or small;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But take and use them all with simple pleasure.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For when we gladly eat our daily bread, we bless</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">The Hand that feeds us;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when we tread the road of Life in cheerfulness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our very heart-beats praise the Love that leads us.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="master-of-music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Master of Music</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">(In memory of Theodore Thomas, 1905)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Glory architect, glory of painter, and sculptor, and bard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Living forever in temple and picture and statue and song,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look how the world with the lights that they lit is illumined and starred;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brief was the flame of their life, but the lamps of their art burn long!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where is the Master of Music, and how has he vanished away?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where is the work that he wrought with his wonderful art in the air?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gone,—it is gone like the glow on the cloud at the close of the day!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Master has finished his work and the glory of music is—where?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once, at the wave of his wand, all the billows of musical sound</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Followed his will, as the sea was ruled by the prophet of old:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now that his hand is relaxed, and his rod has dropped to the ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Silent and dark are the shores where the marvellous harmonies rolled!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, but not silent the hearts that were filled by that life-giving sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deeper and purer forever the tides of their being will roll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grateful and joyful, O Master, because they have listened to thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The glory of music endures in the depths of the human soul.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="stars-and-the-soul" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Stars and the Soul</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">(To Charles A. Young, astronomer)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>“Two things,” the wise man said, “fill me with awe:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The starry heavens and the moral law.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nay, add another wonder to thy roll,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The living marvel of the human soul!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Born in the dust and cradled in the dark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It feels the fire of an immortal spark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And learns to read, with patient, searching eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The splendid secret of the unconscious skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For God thought Light before He spoke the word;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The darkness understood not, though it heard:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But man looks up to where the planets swim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thinks God's thoughts of glory after Him.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What knows the star that guides the sailor's way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or lights the lover's bower with liquid ray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of toil and passion, danger and distress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brave hope, true love, and utter faithfulness?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But human hearts that suffer good and ill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hold to virtue with a loyal will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adorn the law that rules our mortal strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With star-surpassing victories of life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So take our thanks, dear reader of the skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Devout astronomer, most humbly wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For lessons brighter than the stars can give,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And inward light that helps us all to live.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-julia-marlowe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">To Julia Marlowe</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">(Reading Keats' Ode on a Grecian Urn)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Long had I loved this “Attic shape,” the brede</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of marble maidens round this urn divine:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when your golden voice began to read,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The empty urn was filled with Chian wine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pan-learns-music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Pan Learns Music</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">For a sculpture by Sara Greene</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Limber-limbed, lazy god, stretched on the rock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where is sweet Echo, and where is your flock?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What are you making here? “Listen,” said Pan,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Out of a river-reed music for man!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="undine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“Undine”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>'Twas far away and long ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When I was but a dreaming boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This fairy tale of love and woe</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Entranced my heart with tearful joy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And while with white Undine I wept</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your spirit,—ah, how strange it seems,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was cradled in some star, and slept,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unconscious of her coming dreams.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="love-in-a-look" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love in a Look</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Let me but feel thy look's embrace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Transparent, pure, and warm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I'll not ask to touch thy face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or fold thee in mine arm.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For in thine eyes a girl doth rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Arrayed in candid bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And draws me to her with a charm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">More close than any kiss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A loving-cup of golden wine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Songs of a silver brook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fragrant breaths of eglantine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are mingled in thy look.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More fair they are than any star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy topaz eyes divine—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And deep within their trysting-nook</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy spirit blends with mine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-april-lady" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My April Lady</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When down the stair at morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sunbeams round her float,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet rivulets of laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are rippling in her throat;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gladness of her greeting</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is gold without alloy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the morning sunlight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I think her name is Joy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When in the evening twilight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The quiet book-room lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We read the sad old ballads,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While from her hidden eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tears are falling, falling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That give her heart relief;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the evening twilight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I think her name is Grief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My little April lady,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of sunshine and of showers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She weaves the old spring magic,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And my heart breaks in flowers!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when her moods are ended,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She nestles like a dove;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then, by the pain and rapture,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I know her name is Love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-lovers-envy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Lover's Envy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I envy every flower that blows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along the meadow where she goes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And every bird that sings to her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And every breeze that brings to her</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The fragrance of the rose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I envy every poet's rhyme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That moves her heart at eventime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And every tree that wears for her</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its brightest bloom, and bears for her</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The fruitage of its prime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I envy every Southern night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That paves her path with moonbeams white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And silvers all the leaves for her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And in their shadow weaves for her</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A dream of dear delight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I envy none whose love requires</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of her a gift, a task that tires:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I only long to live to her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I only ask to give to her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">All that her heart desires.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-hermit-thrush" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Hermit Thrush</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O wonderful! How liquid clear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The molten gold of that ethereal tone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Floating and falling through the wood alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A hermit-hymn poured out for God to hear!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>
					<em>O holy, holy, holy! Hyaline,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Long light, low light, glory of eventide!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Love far away, far up,—up,—love divine!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Little love, too, for ever, ever near,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Warm love, earth love, tender love of mine,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>In the leafy dark where you hide,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>You are mine,—mine,—mine!</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah, my belovèd, do you feel with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hidden virtue of that melody,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rapture and the purity of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The heavenly joy that can not find the word?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then, while we wait again to hear the bird,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come very near to me, and do not move,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now, hermit of the woodland, fill anew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cool, green cup of air with harmony,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we will drink the wine of love with you.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>May, 1908.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="fire-fly-city" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fire-Fly City</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Like a long arrow through the dark the train is darting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bearing me far away, after a perfect day of love's delight:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wakeful with all the sad-sweet memories of parting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I lift the narrow window-shade and look out on the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lonely the land unknown, and like a river flowing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Forest and field and hill are gliding backward still athwart my dream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till in that country strange, and ever stranger growing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A magic city full of lights begins to glow and gleam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wide through the landscape dim the lamps are lit in millions;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Long avenues unfold clear-shining lines of gold across the green;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clusters and rings of light, and luminous pavilions,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh, who will tell the city's name, and what these wonders mean?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Why do they beckon me, and what have they to show me?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crowds in the blazing street, mirth where the feasters meet, kisses and wine:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Many to laugh with me, but never one to know me:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A cityful of stranger-hearts and none to beat with mine!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Look how the glittering lines are wavering and lifting,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Softly the breeze of night scatters the vision bright: and, passing fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the meadow-grass and through the forest drifting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Fire-Fly City of the Dark is lost in empty air!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-gentle-traveller" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Gentle Traveller</h2>
			<p>
				<span>“Through many a land your journey ran,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And showed the best the world can boast:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now tell me, traveller, if you can,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The place that pleased you most.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She laid her hands upon my breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And murmured gently in my ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The place I loved and liked the best</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was in your arms, my dear!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sicily-december-1908" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sicily, December, 1908</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O garden isle, beloved by Sun and Sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose bluest billows kiss thy curving bays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose light infolds thy hills with golden rays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filling with fruit each dark-leaved orange-tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What hidden hatred hath the Earth for thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That once again, in these dark, dreadful days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Breaks forth in trembling rage, and swiftly lays</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy beauty waste in wreck and agony!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is Nature, then, a strife of jealous powers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And man the plaything of unconscious fate?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Not so, my troubled heart! God reigns above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And man is greatest in his darkest hours.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Walking amid the cities desolate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Behold the Son of God in human love!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>Tertius and Henry van Dyke.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-window" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Window</h2>
			<p>
				<span>All night long, by a distant bell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The passing hours were notched</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the dark, while her breathing rose and fell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the spark of life I watched</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In her face was glowing, or fading,—who could tell?—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the open window of the room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With a flare of yellow light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was peering out into the gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Like an eye that searched the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>
					<em>Oh, what do you see in the dark, little window, and why do you peer?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>“I see that the garden is crowded with creeping forms of fear:</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Little white ghosts in the locust-tree, wave in the night-wind's breath,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>And low in the leafy laurels the lurking shadow of death.”</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sweet, clear notes of a waking bird</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Told of the passing away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the dark,—and my darling may have heard;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For she smiled in her sleep, while the ray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the rising dawn spoke joy without a word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till the splendour born in the east outburned</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The yellow lamplight, pale and thin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the open window slowly turned</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To the eye of the morning, looking in.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>
					<em>Oh, what do you see in the room, little window, that makes you so bright?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>“I see that a child is asleep on her pillow, soft and white:</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>With the rose of life on her lips, the pulse of life in her breast,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>And the arms of God around her, she quietly takes her rest.”</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>Neuilly, June, 1909.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="three-alpine-sonnets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Three Alpine Sonnets</h2>
			<section id="three-alpine-sonnets-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Glacier</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>At dawn in silence moves the mighty stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The silver-crested waves no murmur make;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But far away the avalanches wake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rumbling echoes, dull as in a dream;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their momentary thunders, dying, seem</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To fall into the stillness, flake by flake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And leave the hollow air with naught to break</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The frozen spell of solitude supreme.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At noon unnumbered rills begin to spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beneath the burning sun, and all the walls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the ocean-blue crevasses ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With liquid lyrics of their waterfalls;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if a poet's heart had felt the glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sovereign love, and song began to flow.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Zermatt, 1872.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
			<section id="three-alpine-sonnets-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Snow-Field</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>White Death had laid his pall upon the plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And crowned the mountain-peaks like monarchs dead;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The vault of heaven was glaring overhead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pitiless light that filled my eyes with pain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And while I vainly longed, and looked in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For sign or trace of life, my spirit said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Shall any living thing that dares to tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This royal lair of Death escape again?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But even then I saw before my feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A line of pointed footprints in the snow:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some roving chamois, but an hour ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had passed this way along his journey fleet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left a message from a friend unknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cheer my pilgrim-heart, no more alone.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Zermatt, 1872.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
			<section id="three-alpine-sonnets-3">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Moving Bells</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>I love the hour that comes, with dusky hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dewy feet, along the Alpine dells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To lead the cattle forth. A thousand bells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go chiming after her across the fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flowery uplands, while the rosy flare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of sunset on the snowy mountain dwells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And valleys darken, and the drowsy spells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of peace are woven through the purple air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dear is the magic of this hour: she seems</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To walk before the dark by falling rills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lend a sweeter song to hidden streams;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She opens all the doors of night, and fills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With moving bells the music of my dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That wander far among the sleeping hills.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Gstaad, August, 1909.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="hudsons-last-voyage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hudson's Last Voyage</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>The shallop on Hudson Bay</p>
					<p>June 22, 1611</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>One sail in sight upon the lonely sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And only one! For never ship but mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has dared these waters. We were first,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My men, to battle in between the bergs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And floes to these wide waves. This gulf is mine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I name it! and that flying sail is mine!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there, hull-down below that flying sail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ship that staggers home is mine, mine, mine!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="dl2">
					<span>My ship <i>Discoverie</i>!</span>
					<span>The sullen dogs</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of mutineers, the bitches' whelps that snatched</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their food and bit the hand that nourished them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have stolen her. You ingrate Henry Greene,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I picked you from the gutter of Houndsditch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And paid your debts, and kept you in my house,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And brought you here to make a man of you!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You Robert Juet, ancient, crafty man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Toothless and tremulous, how many times</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have I employed you as a master's mate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To give you bread? And you Abacuck Prickett,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You sailor-clerk, you salted puritan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You knew the plot and silently agreed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Salving your conscience with a pious lie!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, all of you—hounds, rebels, thieves! Bring back</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="dl2">
					<span>My ship!</span>
					<span>Too late,—I rave,—they cannot hear</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My voice: and if they heard, a drunken laugh</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would be their answer; for their minds have caught</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fatal firmness of the fool's resolve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That looks like courage but is only fear.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They'll blunder on, and lose my ship, and drown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or blunder home to England and be hanged.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their skeletons will rattle in the chains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of some tall gibbet on the Channel cliffs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While passing mariners look up and say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Those are the rotten bones of Hudson's men</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who left their captain in the frozen North!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O God of justice, why hast Thou ordained</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plans of the wise and actions of the brave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dependent on the aid of fools and cowards?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Look,—there she goes,—her topsails in the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gleam from the ragged ocean edge, and drop</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clean out of sight! So let the traitors go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clean out of mind! We'll think of braver things!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come closer in the boat, my friends. John King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You take the tiller, keep her head nor'west.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You Philip Staffe, the only one who chose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Freely to share our little shallop's fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rather than travel in the hell-bound ship,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too good an English sailor to desert</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your crippled comrades,—try to make them rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More easy on the thwarts. And John, my son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My little shipmate, come and lean your head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against my knee. Do you remember still</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The April morn in Ethelburga's church,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Five years ago, when side by side we kneeled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To take the sacrament with all our men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before the <i>Hopewell</i> left St. Catherine's docks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On our first voyage? It was then I vowed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My sailor-soul and yours to search the sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until we found the water-path that leads</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="dl2">
					<span>From Europe into Asia.</span>
					<span>I believe</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That God has poured the ocean round His world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not to divide, but to unite the lands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the English captains that have dared</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In little ships to plough uncharted waves,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Davis and Drake, Hawkins and Frobisher,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Raleigh and Gilbert,—all the other names,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are written in the chivalry of God</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As men who served His purpose. I would claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A place among that knighthood of the sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I have earned it, though my quest should fail!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For, mark me well, the honour of our life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Derives from this: to have a certain aim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before us always, which our will must seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amid the peril of uncertain ways.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then, though we miss the goal, our search is crowned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With courage, and we find along our path</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A rich reward of unexpected things.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Press towards the aim: take fortune as it fares!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I know not why, but something in my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has always whispered, “Westward seek your goal!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Three times they sent me east, but still I turned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bowsprit west, and felt among the floes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of ruttling ice along the Greenland coast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And down the rugged shore of Newfoundland,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And past the rocky capes and wooded bays</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Gosnold sailed,—like one who feels his way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With outstretched hand across a darkened room,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I groped among the inlets and the isles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To find the passage to the Land of Spice.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have not found it yet,—but I have found</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="dl2">
					<span>Things worth the finding!</span>
					<span>Son, have you forgot</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those mellow autumn days, two years ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When first we sent our little ship <i>Half-Moon</i>,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flag of Holland floating at her peak,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across a sandy bar, and sounded in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among the channels, to a goodly bay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where all the navies of the world could ride?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fertile island that the redmen called</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Manhattan, lay above the bay: the land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around was bountiful and friendly fair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But never land was fair enough to hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The seaman from the calling of the sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And so we bore to westward of the isle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along a mighty inlet, where the tide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was troubled by a downward-flowing flood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That seemed to come from far away,—perhaps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From some mysterious gulf of Tartary?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inland we held our course; by palisades</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of naked rock; by rolling hills adorned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With forests rich in timber for great ships;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through narrows where the mountains shut us in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With frowning cliffs that seemed to bar the stream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then through open reaches where the banks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sloped to the water gently, with their fields</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of corn and lentils smiling in the sun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ten days we voyaged through that placid land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until we came to shoals, and sent a boat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upstream to find,—what I already knew,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We travelled on a river, not a strait.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But what a river! God has never poured</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A stream more royal through a land more rich.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even now I see it flowing in my dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While coming ages people it with men</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of manhood equal to the river's pride.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see the wigwams of the redmen changed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To ample houses, and the tiny plots</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of maize and green tobacco broadened out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To prosperous farms, that spread o'er hill and dale</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The many-coloured mantle of their crops.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see the terraced vineyard on the slope</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where now the fox-grape loops its tangled vine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cattle feeding where the red deer roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wild-bees gathered into busy hives</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To store the silver comb with golden sweet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the promised land begins to flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With milk and honey. Stately manors rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along the banks, and castles top the hills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And little villages grow populous with trade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the river runs as proudly as the Rhine,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thread that links a hundred towns and towers!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now looking deeper in my dream, I see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A mighty city covering the isle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They call Manhattan, equal in her state</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To all the older capitals of earth,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gateway city of a golden world,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A city girt with masts, and crowned with spires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And swarming with a million busy men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While to her open door across the bay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ships of all the nations flock like doves.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My name will be remembered there, the world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will say, “This river and this isle were found</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By Henry Hudson, on his way to seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="dl2">
					<span>The Northwest Passage.”</span>
					<span>Yes, I seek it still,—</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My great adventure and my guiding star!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For look ye, friends, our voyage is not done;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We hold by hope as long as life endures!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Somewhere among these floating fields of ice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Somewhere along this westward widening bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Somewhere beneath this luminous northern night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The channel opens to the Farthest East,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know it,—and some day a little ship</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will push her bowsprit in, and battle through!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And why not ours,—to-morrow,—who can tell?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lucky chance awaits the fearless heart!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These are the longest days of all the year;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world is round and God is everywhere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And while our shallop floats we still can steer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So point her up, John King, nor'west by north</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We'll keep the honour of a certain aim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amid the peril of uncertain ways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sail ahead, and leave the rest to God.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>July, 1909.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="hymn-of-labor" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hymn of Labor</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Jesus, Thou divine Companion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By Thy lowly human birth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast come to join the workers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Burden-bearers of the earth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou, the Carpenter of Naz’reth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Toiling for Thy daily food,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By Thy patience and Thy courage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou hast taught us toil is good.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They who tread the path of labor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Follow where Thy feet have trod;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They who work without complaining</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do the holy will of God.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou, the peace that passeth knowledge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dwellest in the daily strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou, the Bread of heaven, art broken</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the sacrament of life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Every task, however simple,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sets the soul that does it free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every deed of love and kindness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Done to man is done to Thee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jesus, Thou divine Companion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Help us all to work our best;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bless us in our daily labor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lead us to our Sabbath rest.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>8.7.8.7.D Beecher.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-distant-road" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Distant Road</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Blessed is the man that beholdeth the face of a friend in a far country,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The darkness of his heart is melted by the dawning of day within him,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is like the sound of a sweet music heard long ago and half forgotten:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is like the coming back of birds to a wood when the winter is ended.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I knew not the sweetness of the fountain till I found it flowing in the desert,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor the value of a friend till we met in a land that was crowded and lonely.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The multitude of mankind had bewildered me and oppressed me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I complained to God, Why hast thou made the world so wide?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when my friend came the wideness of the world had no more terror,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because we were glad together among men to whom we were strangers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seemed as if I had been reading a book in a foreign language,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And suddenly I came upon a page written in the tongue of my childhood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This was the gentle heart of my friend who quietly understood me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The open and loving heart whose meaning was clear without a word.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O thou great Companion who carest for all thy pilgrims and strangers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thank thee heartily for the comfort of a comrade on the distant road.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-welcome-tent" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Welcome Tent</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This is the thanksgiving of the weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The song of him that is ready to rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is good to be glad when the day is declining,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the setting of the sun is like a word of peace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The stars look kindly on the close of a journey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tent says welcome when the day's march is done.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For now is the time of the laying down of burdens,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the cool hour cometh to them that have borne the heat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have rejoiced greatly in labour and adventure;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart hath been enlarged in the spending of my strength.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now it is all gone, yet I am not impoverished,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thus only I inherit the treasure of repose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blessed be the Lord that teacheth my fingers to loosen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cooleth my feet with water after the dust of the way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blessed be the Lord that giveth me hunger at nightfall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And filleth my evening cup with the wine of good cheer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blessed be the Lord that maketh me happy to be quiet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even as a child that cometh softly to his mother's lap.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O God, thy strength is never worn away with labour:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it is good for us to be weary and receive thy gift of rest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-great-cities" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Great Cities</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How wonderful are the cities that man hath builded:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their walls are compacted of heavy stones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their lofty towers rise above the tree-tops.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rome, Jerusalem, Cairo, Damascus,--</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Venice, Constantinople, Moscow, Pekin,--</span>
				<br/>
				<span>London, New York, Berlin, Paris, Vienna,--</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These are the names of mighty enchantments,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They have called to the ends of the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They have secretly summoned a host of servants.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They shine from far sitting beside great waters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are proudly enthroned upon high hills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They spread out their splendour along the rivers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet are they all the work of small patient fingers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their strength is in the hand of man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hath woven his flesh and blood into their glory.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cities are scattered over the world like anthills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every one of them is full of trouble and toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their makers run to and fro within them.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Abundance of riches is laid up in their treasuries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they are tormented with the fear of want,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cry of the poor in their streets is exceeding bitter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their inhabitants are driven by blind perturbations,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They whirl sadly in the fever of haste,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking they know not what, they pursue it fiercely.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The air is heavy-laden with their breathing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sound of their coming and going is never still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even in the night I hear them whispering and crying.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beside every ant-hill I behold a monster crouching:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is the ant-lion Death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He thrusteth forth his tongue and the people perish.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O God of wisdom thou hast made the country:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why hast thou suffered man to make the town?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God answered, Surely I am the maker of man:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the heart of man I have set the city.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-friendly-trees" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Friendly Trees</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I will sing of the bounty of the big trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are the green tents of the Almighty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hath set them up for comfort and for shelter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their cords hath he knotted in the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hath driven their stakes securely,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their roots take hold of the rocks like iron.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He sendeth into their bodies the sap of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They lift themselves lightly toward the heavens.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They rejoice in the broadening of their branches.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their leaves drink in the sunlight and the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They talk softly together when the breeze bloweth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their shadow in the noon-day is full of coolness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tall palm-trees of the plain are rich in fruit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the fruit ripeneth the flower unfoldeth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The beauty of their crown is renewed on high forever.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cedars of Lebanon are fed by the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afar on the mountain they grow like giants,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In their layers of shade a thousand years are dreaming.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How fair are the trees that befriend the home of man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The oak, and the terebinth, and the sycamore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The broad-leaved fig-tree and the delicate silvery olive.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In them the Lord is loving to his little birds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The linnets and the finches and the nightingales,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They people his pavilions with nests and with music.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cattle also are very glad of a great tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They chew the cud beneath it while the sun is burning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there the panting sheep lie down around their shepherd.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He that planteth a tree is a servant of God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He provideth a kindness for many generations,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And faces that he hath not seen shall bless him.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lord, when my spirit shall return to thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the foot of a friendly tree let my body be buried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That this dust may rise and rejoice among the branches.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-broken-sword" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Broken Sword</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Mine enemies have prevailed against me, O God:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast led me deep into their ambush.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They surround me with a hedge of spears:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sword in my hand is broken.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My friends also have forsaken my side:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From a safe place they look upon me with pity.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My heart is like water poured upon the ground:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have come alone to the place of surrender.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To thee, to thee only will I give up my sword:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sword which was broken in thy service.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou hast required me to suffer for thy cause:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By my defeat thy will is victorious.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O my King show me thy face shining in the dark:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While I drink the loving-cup of death to thy glory.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-unseen-altar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Unseen Altar</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Man the maker of cities is also a builder of altars:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among his habitations he setteth tables for his god.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He bringeth the beauty of the rocks to enrich them:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Marble and alabaster, porphyry, jasper and jade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He cometh with costly gifts to offer an oblation:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He would buy favour with the fairest of his flock.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Around the many altars I hear strange music arising:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loud lamentations and shouting and singing and sighs.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I perceive also the pain and terror of their sacrifices:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see the white marble wet with tears and with blood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then I said, These are the altars of ignorance:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet they are built by thy children, O God, who know thee not.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Surely thou wilt have pity upon them and lead them:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hast thou not prepared for them a table of peace?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the Lord mercifully sent his angel forth to lead me:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He led me through the temples, the holy place that is hidden.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lo, there are multitudes kneeling in the silence of the spirit:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are kneeling at the unseen altar of the lowly heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here is plentiful forgiveness for the souls that are forgiving:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the joy of life is given unto all who long to give.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here a Father's hand upholdeth all who bear each other's burdens:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the benediction falleth upon all who pray in love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Surely this is the altar where the penitent find pardon:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the priest who hath blessed it forever is the Holy One of God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-pathway-of-rivers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Pathway of Rivers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The rivers of God are full of water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are wonderful in the renewal of their strength,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He poureth them out from a hidden fountain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They are born among the hills in the high places,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their cradle is in the bosom of the rocks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mountain is their mother and the forest is their father.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They are nourished among the long grasses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They receive the tribute of a thousand springs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rain and the snow provide their inheritance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They are glad to be gone from their birthplace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a joyful noise they hasten away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are going forever and never departed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The courses of the rivers are all appointed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They roar loudly but they follow the road,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the finger of God hath marked their pathway.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The rivers of Damascus rejoice among their gardens;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The great river of Egypt is proud of his ships;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Jordan is lost in the Lake of Bitterness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Surely the Lord guideth them every one in his wisdom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the end he gathereth all their drops on high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sendeth them forth again in the clouds of mercy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O my God, my life floweth away like a river:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Guide me, I beseech thee, in a pathway of good:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let me run in blessing to my rest in thee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-glory-of-ruins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Glory of Ruins</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The lizard rested on the rock while I sat among the ruins,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the pride of man was like a vision of the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lo, the lords of the city have disappeared into darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ancient wilderness hath swallowed up all their work.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There is nothing left of the city but a heap of fragments;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bones of a vessel broken by the storm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Behold the waves of the desert wait hungrily for man's dwellings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the tides of desolation return upon his toil.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All that he hath painfully built up is shaken down in a moment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The memory of his glory is buried beneath the billows of sand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then a voice said, Look again upon the ruins,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These broken arches have taught generations to build.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Moreover the name of this city shall be remembered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For here a poor man spoke a word that shall not die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is the glory that is stronger than the desert;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God hath given eternity to the thought of man.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-tribe-of-the-helpers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Tribe of the Helpers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The ways of the world are full of haste and turmoil;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will sing of the tribe of the helpers who travel in peace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He that turneth from the road to rescue another,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turneth toward his goal:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He shall arrive in time by the foot-path of mercy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God will be his guide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He that taketh up the burden of the fainting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lighteneth his own load:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Almighty will put his arms underneath him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He shall lean upon the Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He that speaketh comfortable words to mourners,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Healeth his own hurt;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the time of grief they will come to his remembrance.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God will use them for balm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He that careth for a wounded brother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Watcheth not alone:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are three in the darkness together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the third is the Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blessed is the way of the helpers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The companions of the Christ.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-good-teacher" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Good Teacher</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The Lord is my teacher,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not lose the way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He leadeth me in the lowly path of learning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He prepareth a lesson for me every day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He bringeth me to the clear fountains of instruction,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Little by little he showeth me the beauty of truth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The world is a great book that he hath written,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He turneth the leaves for me slowly;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are inscribed with images and letters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He poureth light on the pictures and the words.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He taketh me by the hand to the hill-top of vision,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my soul is glad when I perceive his meaning;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the valley also he walketh beside me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dark places he whispereth to my heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Even though my lesson be hard it is not hopeless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the Lord is patient with his slow scholar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He will wait awhile for my weakness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And help me to read the truth through tears.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-camp-fires-of-my-friend" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Camp-Fires of My Friend</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Thou hast taken me into thy tent of the world, O God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath thy blue canopy I have found shelter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Therefore thou wilt not deny me the right of a guest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Naked and poor I arrived at thy door before sunset:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast refreshed me with beautiful bowls of milk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As a great chief thou hast set forth food in abundance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have loved the daily delights of thy dwelling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy moon and thy stars have lighted me to my bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the morning I have made merry with thy servants.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Surely thou wilt not send me away in the darkness?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There the enemy Death is lying in wait for my soul:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art the host of my life and I claim thy protection.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the Lord of the tent of the world made answer:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>_The right of a guest endureth for a certain time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>After three days and nights cometh the day of departure._</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>_Yet hearken to me since thou fearest to go in the dark:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will make with thee a new covenant of hospitality,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behold I will come unto thee as a stranger and be thy guest._</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>_Poor and needy will I come that thou mayest entertain me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Meek and lowly will I come that thou mayest find a friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With mercy and with truth will I come to give thee comfort._</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>_Therefore open thy heart to me and bid me welcome,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this tent of the world I will be thy brother of the bread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when thou farest forth I will be thy companion forever._</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then my soul rested in the word of the Lord;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I saw that the curtains of the world were shaken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I looked beyond them to the stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The camp-fires of my eternal friend.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hymn-of-joy" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hymn of Joy</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">To the music of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Joyful, joyful, we adore Thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God of glory, Lord of love;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hearts unfold like flowers before Thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Praising Thee their sun above.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Melt the clouds of sin and sadness;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Drive the dark of doubt away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Giver of immortal gladness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fill us with the light of day!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All Thy works with joy surround Thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Earth and heaven reflect Thy rays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stars and angels sing around Thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Centre of unbroken praise:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Field and forest, vale and mountain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Blooming meadow, flashing sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chanting bird and flowing fountain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Call us to rejoice in Thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou art giving and forgiving,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ever blessing, ever blest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well-spring of the joy of living,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ocean-depth of happy rest!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou our Father, Christ our Brother,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All who live in love are Thine:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Teach us how to love each other,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lift us to the Joy Divine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mortals join the mighty chorus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which the morning stars began;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Father-love is reigning o'er us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brother-love binds man to man.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ever singing march we onward,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Victors in the midst of strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Joyful music lifts us sunward</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the triumph song of life.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1908.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-sun-dial-at-morven" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Sun-Dial at Morven</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">For Bayard and Helen Stockton</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Two hundred years of blessing I record</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Morven's house, protected by the Lord:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And still I stand among old-fashioned flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To mark for Morven many sunlit hours.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-shepherd-of-nymphs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Shepherd of Nymphs</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">The nymphs a shepherd took</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To guard their snowy sheep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He led them down along the brook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And guided them with pipe and crook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Until he fell asleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">But when the piping stayed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Across the flowery mead</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The milk-white nymphs ran out afraid:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Thyrsis, wake! Your flock has strayed,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The nymphs a shepherd need.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="echoes-from-the-greek-anthology" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Echoes from the Greek Anthology</h2>
			<section id="echoes-from-the-greek-anthology-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Starlight</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>With two bright eyes, my star, my love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou lookest on the stars above:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, would that I the heaven might be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a million eyes to look on thee.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Plato.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
			<section id="echoes-from-the-greek-anthology-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Roseleaf</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>A little while the rose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And after that the thorn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An hour of dewy morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the glamour goes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, love in beauty born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little while the rose!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Unknown.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
			<section id="echoes-from-the-greek-anthology-3">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Phosphor-Hesper</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O morning star, farewell!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My love I now must leave;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hours of day I slowly tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turn to her with the twilight bell,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O welcome, star of eve!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Meleager.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
			<section id="echoes-from-the-greek-anthology-4">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Seasons</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet in summer, cups of snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cooling thirsty lips aglow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet to sailors winter-bound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spring arrives with garlands crowned;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweeter yet the hour that covers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With one cloak a pair of lovers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Living lost in golden weather,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While they talk of love together.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Asclepiades.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
			<section id="echoes-from-the-greek-anthology-5">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Vine and the Goat</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Although you eat me to the root,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I yet shall bear enough of fruit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For wine to sprinkle your dim eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you are made a sacrifice.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Euenus.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
			<section id="echoes-from-the-greek-anthology-6">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Professor</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Seven pupils, in the class</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Professor Callias,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Listen silent while he drawls,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three are benches, four are walls.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Unknown.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="the-grand-canyon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Grand Canyon</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Daybreak</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>What makes the lingering Night so cling to thee?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou vast, profound, primeval hiding-place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of ancient secrets,—gray and ghostly gulf</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cleft in the green of this high forest land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And crowded in the dark with giant forms!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Art thou a grave, a prison, or a shrine?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A stillness deeper than the dearth of sound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Broods over thee: a living silence breathes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perpetual incense from thy dim abyss.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The morning-stars that sang above the bower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Eden, passing over thee, are dumb</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With trembling bright amazement; and the Dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Steals through the glimmering pines with naked feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her hand upon her lips, to look on thee!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She peers into thy depths with silent prayer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For light, more light, to part thy purple veil.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Earth, swift-rolling Earth, reveal, reveal,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turn to the East, and show upon thy breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mightiest marvel in the realm of Time!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'Tis done,—the morning miracle of light,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The resurrection of the world of hues</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That die with dark, and daily rise again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With every rising of the splendid Sun!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Be still, my heart! Now Nature holds her breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see the solar flood of radiance leap</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the chasm, and crown the western rim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of alabaster with a far-away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rampart of pearl, and flowing down by walls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of changeful opal, deepen into gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of topaz, rosy gold of tourmaline,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crimson of garnet, green and gray of jade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Purple of amethyst, and ruby red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beryl, and sard, and royal porphyry;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the cataract of colour breaks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the blackness of the granite floor.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How far below! And all between is cleft</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And carved into a hundred curving miles</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of unimagined architecture! Tombs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Temples, and colonnades are neighboured there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By fortresses that Titans might defend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And amphitheatres where Gods might strive.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cathedrals, buttressed with unnumbered tiers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of ruddy rock, lift to the sapphire sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A single spire of marble pure as snow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And huge aërial palaces arise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like mountains built of unconsuming flame.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along the weathered walls, or standing deep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In riven valleys where no foot may tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are lonely pillars, and tall monuments</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of perished æons and forgotten things.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My sight is baffled by the wide array</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of countless forms: my vision reels and swims</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above them, like a bird in whirling winds.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet no confusion fills the awful chasm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But spacious order and a sense of peace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brood over all. For every shape that looms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Majestic in the throng, is set apart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From all the others by its far-flung shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blue, blue, as if a mountain-lake were there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How still it is! Dear God, I hardly dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To breathe, for fear the fathomless abyss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will draw me down into eternal sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What force has formed this masterpiece of awe?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What hands have wrought these wonders in the waste?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O river, gleaming in the narrow rift</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of gloom that cleaves the valley's nether deep,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fierce Colorado, prisoned by thy toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And blindly toiling still to reach the sea,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy waters, gathered from the snows and springs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amid the Utah hills, have carved this road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of glory to the Californian Gulf.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now, O sunken stream, thy splendour lost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Twixt iron walls thou rollest turbid waves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too far away to make their fury heard!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At sight of thee, thou sullen labouring slave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of gravitation,—yellow torrent poured</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From distant mountains by no will of thine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through thrice a hundred centuries of slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fallings and liftings of the crust of Earth,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At sight of thee my spirit sinks and fails.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Art thou alone the Maker? Is the blind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unconscious power that drew thee dumbly down</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To cut this gash across the layered globe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sole creative cause of all I see?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are force and matter all? The rest a dream?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then is thy gorge a canyon of despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A prison for the soul of man, a grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of all his dearest daring hopes! The world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wherein we live and move is meaningless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No spirit here to answer to our own!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stars without a guide: The chance-born Earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adrift in space, no Captain on the ship:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nothing in all the universe to prove</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eternal wisdom and eternal love!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And man, the latest accident of Time,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who thinks he loves, and longs to understand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who vainly suffers, and in vain is brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who dupes his heart with immortality,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man is a living lie,—a bitter jest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon himself,—a conscious grain of sand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lost in a desert of unconsciousness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thirsting for God and mocked by his own thirst.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Spirit of Beauty, mother of delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou fairest offspring of Omnipotence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inhabiting this lofty lone abode,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Speak to my heart again and set me free</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From all these doubts that darken earth and heaven!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who sent thee forth into the wilderness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bless and comfort all who see thy face?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who clad thee in this more than royal robe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of rainbows? Who designed these jewelled thrones</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thee, and wrought these glittering palaces?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who gave thee power upon the soul of man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lift him up through wonder into joy?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God! let the radiant cliffs bear witness, God!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let all the shining pillars signal, God!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He only, on the mystic loom of light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hath woven webs of loveliness to clothe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His most majestic works: and He alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hath delicately wrought the cactus-flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To star the desert floor with rosy bloom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Beauty, handiwork of the Most High,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where'er thou art He tells his Love to man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lo, the day breaks, and the shadows flee!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now, far beyond all language and all art</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In thy wild splendour, Canyon marvellous,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The secret of thy stillness lies unveiled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In wordless worship! This is holy ground;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art no grave, no prison, but a shrine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Garden of Temples filled with Silent Praise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If God were blind thy Beauty could not be!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>February 24-26, 1913.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="sierra-madre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sierra Madre</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Mother mountains! billowing far to the snow-lands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Robed in aërial amethyst, silver, and blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why do ye look so proudly down on the lowlands?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What have their groves and gardens to do with you?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Theirs is the languorous charm of the orange and myrtle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Theirs are the fruitage and fragrance of Eden of old,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Broad-boughed oaks in the meadows fair and fertile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dark-leaved orchards gleaming with globes of gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You, in your solitude standing, lofty and lonely,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bear neither garden nor grove on your barren breasts;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rough is the rock-loving growth of your canyons, and only</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Storm-battered pines and fir-trees cling to your crests.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Why are ye throned so high, and arrayed in splendour</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Richer than all the fields at your feet can claim?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What is your right, ye rugged peaks, to the tender</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Queenly promise and pride of the mother-name?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Answered the mountains, dim in the distance dreaming:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Ours are the forests that treasure the riches of rain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ours are the secret springs and the rivulets gleaming</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Silverly down through the manifold bloom of the plain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Vain were the toiling of men in the dust of the dry land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Vain were the ploughing and planting in waterless fields,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save for the life-giving currents we send from the sky-land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Save for the fruit our embrace with the storm-cloud yields.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O mother mountains, Madre Sierra, I love you!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rightly you reign o'er the vale that your bounty fills—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kissed by the sun, or with big, bright stars above you,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I murmur your name and lift up mine eyes to the hills.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>Pasadena, March, 1913.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="texas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Texas</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Democratic Ode</p>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="texas-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Wild-Bees</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>All along the Brazos river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All along the Colorado,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the valleys and the lowlands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the trees were tall and stately,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the rich and rolling meadows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the grass was full of wild-flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came a humming and a buzzing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came the murmur of a going</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To and fro among the tree-tops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far and wide across the meadows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the red-men in their tepees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smoked their pipes of clay and listened.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What is this?” they asked in wonder;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Who can give the sound a meaning?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who can understand the language</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of this going in the tree-tops?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the wisest of the Tejas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laid his pipe aside and answered:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O my brothers, these are people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Very little, winged people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Countless, busy, banded people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coming humming through the timber.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These are tribes of bees, united</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By a single aim and purpose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To possess the Tejas' country,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gather harvest from the prairies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Store their wealth among the timber.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These are hive and honey makers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sent by Manito to warn us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the white men now are coming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their women and their children.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not the fiery filibusters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passing wildly in a moment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a flame across the prairies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a whirlwind through the forest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving empty lands behind them!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not the Mexicans and Spaniards,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indolent and proud hidalgos,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dwelling in their haciendas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dreaming, talking of tomorrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While their cattle graze around them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And their fickle revolutions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Change the rulers, not the people!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Other folk are these who follow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the wild-bees come to warn us;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These are hive and honey makers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These are busy, banded people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roaming far to swarm and settle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Working every day for harvest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fighting hard for peace and order,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Worshipping as queens their women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Making homes and building cities</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of riches and of trouble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All our hunting-grounds must vanish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All our lodges fall before them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All our customs and traditions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All our happy life of freedom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fade away like smoke before them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come, my brothers, strike your tepees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Call your women, load your ponies!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let us take the trail to westward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the plains are wide and open,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the bison-herds are gathered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waiting for our feathered arrows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We will live as lived our fathers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gleaners of the gifts of nature,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hunters of the unkept cattle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men whose women run to serve them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If the toiling bees pursue us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If the white men seek to tame us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We will fight them off and flee them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Break their hives and take their honey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moving westward, ever westward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There to live as lived our fathers.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the red-men drove their ponies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the tent-poles trailing after,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out along the path to sunset,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While along the river valleys</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swarmed the wild-bees, the forerunners;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the white men, close behind them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men of mark from old Missouri,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men of daring from Kentucky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tennessee, Louisiana,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men of many States and races,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bringing wives and children with them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Followed up the wooded valleys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread across the rolling prairies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raising homes and reaping harvests.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rude the toil that tried their patience,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fierce the fights that proved their courage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rough the stone and tough the timber</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of which they built their order!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet they never failed nor faltered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the instinct of their swarming</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made them one and kept them working,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till their toil was crowned with triumph,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the country of the Tejas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was the fertile land of Texas.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="texas-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Lone Star</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Behold a star appearing in the South,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A star that shines apart from other stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Ruddy and fierce like Mars!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the reeking smoke of cannon's mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That veils the slaughter of the Alamo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where heroes face the foe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One man against a score, with blood-choked breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shouting the watchword, “Victory or Death—”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the dreadful cloud that settles low</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">On Goliad's plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where thrice a hundred prisoners lie slain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the broken word of Mexico—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the fog of factions and of feuds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That ever drifts and broods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the bloody path of border war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Leaps the Lone Star!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What light is this that does not dread the dark?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What star is this that fights a stormy way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To San Jacinto's field of victory?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">It is the fiery spark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That burns within the breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Anglo-Saxon men, who can not rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Under a tyrant's sway;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The upward-leading ray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That guides the brave who give their lives away</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Rather than not be free!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O question not, but honour every name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Travis and Crockett, Bowie, Bonham, Ward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fannin and King, and all who drew the sword</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dared to die for Texan liberty!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, write them all upon the roll of fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But no less love and equal honour give</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To those who paid the longer sacrifice—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Austin and Houston, Burnet, Rusk, Lamar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the stalwart men who dared to live</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long years of service to the lonely star.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great is the worth of such heroic souls:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid the strenuous turmoil of their deeds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They clearly speak of something that controls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The higher breeds of men by higher needs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than bees, content with honey in their hives!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Ah, not enough the narrow lives</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On profitable toil intent!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not enough the guerdons of success</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Garnered in homes of affluent selfishness!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A noble discontent</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Cries for a wider scope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To use the wider wings of human hope;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A vision of the common good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Opens the prison-door of solitude;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And, once beyond the wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Breathing the ampler air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The heart becomes aware</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>That life without a country is not life at all.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A country worthy of a freeman's love;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A country worthy of a good man's prayer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A country strong, and just, and brave, and fair,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A woman's form of beauty throned above</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The shrine where noble aspirations meet—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To live for her is great, to die is sweet!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Heirs of the rugged pioneers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Who dreamed this dream and made it true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Remember that they dreamed for you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">They did not fear their fate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In those tempestuous years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But put their trust in God, and with keen eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trained in the open air for looking far,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">They saw the many-million-acred land</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Won from the desert by their hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Swiftly among the nations rise,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Texas a sovereign State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And on her brow a star!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="texas-3">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Constellation</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>How strange that the nature of light is a thing beyond our ken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the flame of the tiniest candle flows from a fountain sealed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How strange that the meaning of life, in the little lives of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So often baffles our search with a mystery unrevealed!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the larger life of man, as it moves in its secular sweep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is the working out of a Sovereign Will whose ways appear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the course of the journeying stars on the dark blue boundless deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is the place where our science rests in the reign of law most clear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I would read the story of Texas as if it were written on high;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I would look from afar to follow her path through the calms and storms;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a faith in the worldwide sway of the Reason that rules in the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gathers and guides the starry host in clusters and swarms.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When she rose in the pride of her youth, she seemed to be moving apart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As a single star in the South, self-limited, self-possessed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the law of the constellation was written deep in her heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And she heard when her sisters called, from the North and the East and the West.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They were drawn together and moved by a common hope and aim—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dream of a sign that should rule a third of the heavenly arch;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul of a people spoke in their call, and Texas came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To enter the splendid circle of States in their onward march.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So the glory gathered and grew and spread from sea to sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the stars of the great republic lent each other light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all were bound together in strength, and each was free—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suddenly broke the tempest out of the ancient night!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It came as a clash of the force that drives and the force that draws;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the stars were riven asunder, the heavens were desolate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While brother fought with brother, each for his country's cause:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But the country of one was the Nation, the country of other the State.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, who shall measure the praise or blame in a strife so vast?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And who shall speak of traitors or tyrants when all were true?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We lift our eyes to the sky, and rejoice that the storm is past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And we thank the God of all that the Union shines in the blue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yea, it glows with the glory of peace and the hope of a mighty race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">High over the grave of broken chains and buried hates;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the great, big star of Texas is shining clear in its place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the constellate symbol and sign of the free United States.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="texas-4">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">After the Pioneers</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>After the pioneers—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Big-hearted, big-handed lords of the axe and the plow and the rifle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tan-faced tamers of horses and lands, themselves remaining tameless,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of fighting, labour and romance, lovers of rude adventure—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the pioneers have cleared the way to their homes and graves on the prairies:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>After the State-builders—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Zealous and jealous men, dreamers, debaters, often at odds with each other,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All of them sure it is well to toil and to die, if need be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just for the sake of founding a country to leave to their children—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the builders have done their work and written their names upon it:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>After the civil war—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wildest of all storms, cruel and dark and seemingly wasteful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tearing up by the root the vines that were splitting the old foundations,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Washing away with a rain of blood and tears the dust of slavery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the cyclone has passed and the sky is fair to the far horizon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the era of plenty and peace has come with full hands to Texas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then—what then?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Is it to be the life of an indolent heir, fat-witted and self-contented,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dwelling at ease in the house that others have builded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boasting about the country for which he has done nothing?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it to be an age of corpulent, deadly-dull prosperity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Richer and richer crops to nourish a race of Philistines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bigger and bigger cities full of the same confusion and sorrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people increasing mightily but no increase of the joy?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is this what the forerunners wished and toiled to win for you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This the reward of war and the fruitage of high endeavor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This the goal of your hopes and the vision that satisfies you?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, stand up and answer—I can read what is in your hearts—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You, the children of those who followed the wild-bees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You, the children of those who served the Lone Star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now that the hives are full and the star is fixed in the constellation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know that the best of you still are lovers of sweetness and light!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You hunger for honey that comes from invisible gardens;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pure, translucent, golden thoughts and feelings and inspirations,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweetness of all the best that has bloomed in the mind of man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You rejoice in the light that is breaking along the borders of science;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hidden rays that enable a man to look through a wall of stone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unseen, fire-filled wings that carry his words across the ocean;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The splendid gift of flight that shines, half-captured, above him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gleam of a thousand half-guessed secrets, just ready to be discovered!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You dream and devise great things for the coming race—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Children of yours who shall people and rule the domain of Texas;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shall know, they shall comprehend more than their fathers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shall grow in the vigour of well-rounded manhood and womanhood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Riper minds, richer hearts, finer souls, the only true wealth of a nation—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The league-long fields of the State are pledged to ensure this harvest!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your old men have dreamed this dream and your young men have seen this vision.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The age of romance has not gone, it is only beginning;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greater words than the ear of man has heard are waiting to be spoken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finer arts than the eyes of man have seen are sleeping to be awakened:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Science exploring the scope of the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poetry breathing the hope of the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Music to measure and lead the onward march of man!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come, ye honoured and welcome guests from the elder nations,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Princes of science and arts and letters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look on the walls that embody the generous dream of one of the old men of Texas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enter these halls of learning that rise in the land of the pioneer's log-cabin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Read the confessions of faith that are carved on the stones around you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith in the worth of the smallest fact and the laws that govern the starbeams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith in the beauty of truth and the truth of perfect beauty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith in the God who creates the souls of men by knowledge and love and worship.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This is the faith of the New Democracy—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud and humble, patiently pressing forward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Praising her heroes of old and training her future leaders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeking her crown in a nobler race of men and women—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the pioneers, sweetness and light!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>Read at the Dedication of the Rice Institute, Houston, Texas, October, 1912.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="turn-o-the-tide" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Turn O' the Tide</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The tide flows in to the harbour,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bold tide, the gold tide, the flood o' the sunlit sea,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the little ships riding at anchor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are swinging and slanting their prows to the ocean, panting</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To lift their wings to the wide wild air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And venture a voyage they know not where,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To fly away and be free!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tide runs out of the harbour,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The low tide, the slow tide, the ebb o' the moonlit bay,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the little ships rocking at anchor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are rounding and turning their bows to the landward, yearning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To breathe the breath of the sun-warmed strand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To rest in the lee of the high hill land,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hold their haven and stay!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My heart goes round with the vessels,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My wild heart, my child heart, in love with the sea and the land,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the turn o' the tide passes through it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In rising and falling with mystical currents, calling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">At morn, to range where the far waves foam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">At night, to a harbour in love's true home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the hearts that understand!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>Seal Harbour, August 12, 1911.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="rappel-damour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Rappel d'Amour</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come home, my love, come home!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The twilight is falling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The whippoorwill calling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The night is very near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the darkness full of fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come home to my arms, come home!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come home, my love, come home!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In folly we parted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And now, lonely hearted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I know you look in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For a love like mine again;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come home to my arms, come home!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come home, dear love, come home!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I've much to forgive you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And more yet to give you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I'll put a little light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the window every night,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come home to my arms, come home.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-first-bird-o-spring" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The First Bird O' Spring</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">To Olive Wheeler</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Winter on Mount Shasta,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>April down below;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Golden hours of glowing sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sudden showers of snow!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under leafless thickets</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Early wild-flowers cling;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, oh, my dear, I'm fain to hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The first bird o' Spring!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alders are in tassel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Maples are in bud;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waters of the blue McCloud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shout in joyful flood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the giant pine-trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flutters many a wing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, oh, my dear, I long to hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The first bird o' Spring!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Candle-light and fire-light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mingle at “the Bend;”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Neath the roof of Bo-hai-pan</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Light and shadow blend.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweeter than a wood-thrush</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A maid begins to sing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, oh, my dear, I'm glad to hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The first bird o' Spring!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>The Bend, California, April 29, 1913.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="gran-boule" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr-CA">“Gran' Boule”</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Seaman's Tale of the Sea</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>We men hat go down for a livin' in ships to the sea,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We love it a different way from you poets that 'bide on the land.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We are fond of it, sure! But, you take it as comin' from me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There's a fear and a hate in our love that a landsman can't understand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, who could help likin' the salty smell, and the blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the waves that are lazily breathin' as if they dreamed in the sun?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She's a Sleepin' Beauty, the sea,—but you can't tell what she'll do;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the seamen never trust her,—they know too well what she's done!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She's a wench like one that I saw in a singin'-play,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Carmen they called her,—Lord, what a life her lovers did lead!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She'd cuddle and kiss you, and sing you and dance you away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then,—she'd curse you, and break you, and throw you down like a weed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You may chance it awhile with the girls like that, if you please;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you want a woman to trust when you settle down with a wife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a seaman's thought of growin' old at his ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a snug little house on the land to shelter the rest of his life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So that was old <span xml:lang="fr-CA">Poisson</span>'s dream,—did you know the Cap'?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A brown little Frenchman, clever, and brave, and quick as a fish,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had a wife and kids on the other side of the map,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a rose-covered cottage for them and him was his darlin' wish.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I 'ave sail,” says he, in his broken-up Frenchy talk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Mos' forty-two year; I 'ave go on all part of de worl' dat ees wet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm seeck of de boat and de water. I rader walk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wid ma Josephine in one garden; an' eef we get tire', we set!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“You see dat <i xml:lang="fr-CA">bateau</i>, <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship" xml:lang="fr-CA">Sainte Brigitte</i>? I bring 'er dh'are</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From de <span xml:lang="fr-CA">Breton</span> coas', by gar, jus' feefteen year bifore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She ole w'en she come on <span xml:lang="fr-CA">Kebec</span>, but <i xml:lang="fr-CA">Holloway Frères</i></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dey buy 'er, an' hire me run 'er along dat dam' Nort' Shore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Dose engine one leetl' bit cranky,—too ole, you see,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She roll and peetch in de wave'. But I lak' 'er pretty well;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' dat sheep she lak' 'er <span xml:lang="fr-CA">captaine</span>, sure, dat's me!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wit' forty ton coal in de bunker, I tek' dat sheep t'rou' hell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“But I don' wan' risk it no more; I had <span xml:lang="fr-CA">bonne chance</span>:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I save already ten t'ousan' dollar', dat's plenty I s'pose!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nex' winter I buy dat house wid de garden on France</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' I tell adieu to de sea, and I leev' on de lan' in <span xml:lang="fr-CA">ripose</span>.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All summer he talked of his house,—you could see the flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Abloom, and the pear-trees trained on the garden-wall so trim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Captain awalkin' and smokin' away the hours,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He thought he had done with the sea, but the sea hadn't done with him!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It was late in the fall when he made the last regular run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clear down to the Esquimault Point and back with his rickety ship;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She hammered and pounded a lot, for the storms had begun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he drove her,—and went for his season's pay at the end of the trip.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now the Holloway Brothers are greedy and thin little men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With their eyes set close together, and money's their only God;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they told the Cap' he must run the “Bridget” again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fetch a cargo from <span xml:lang="fr-CA">Moisie</span>, two thousand quintals of cod.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He said the season was over. They said: “Not yet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You finish the whole of your job, old man, or you don't draw a cent!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(They had the “Bridget” insured for all they could get.)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Captain objected, and cursed, and cried. But he <em>went</em>.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They took on the cargo at <span xml:lang="fr-CA">Moisie</span>, and folks beside,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Three traders, a priest, and a couple of nuns, and a girl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a school at Quebec,—when the Captain saw her he sighed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And said: “Ma littl' Fifi got hair lak' dat, all curl!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The snow had fallen a foot, and the wind was high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Bridget</i> butted her way thro' the billows on <span xml:lang="fr-CA">Moisie</span> bar.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The darkness grew with the gale, not a star in the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Captain swore: “We mus' make Sept Isles to-night, by gar!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He couldn't go back, for he didn't dare to turn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sea would have thrown the ship like a mustang noosed with a rope;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the monstrous waves were leapin' high astern,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the shelter of Seven Island Bay was the only hope.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There's a bunch of broken hills half sunk in the mouth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the bay, with their jagged peaks afoam; and the Captain thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He could pass to the north; but the sea kept shovin' him south,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With her harlot hands, in the snow-blind murk, till she had him caught.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She had waited forty years for a night like this,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did he think he could leave her now, and live in a cottage, the fool?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She headed him straight for the island he couldn't miss;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And heaved his boat in the dark,—and smashed it against <i xml:lang="fr-CA">Gran' Boule</i>.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How the Captain and half of the people clambered ashore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the surf and the snow in the gloom of that horrible night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There's no one ever will know. For two days more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The death-white shroud of the tempest covered the island from sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How they suffered, and struggled, and died, will never be told;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We discovered them all at last when we reached <i xml:lang="fr-CA">Gran' Boule</i> with a boat;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The drowned and the frozen were lyin' stiff and cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the poor little girl with the curls was wrapped in the Captain's coat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Go write your song of the sea as the landsmen do,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And call her your “great sweet mother,” your “bride,” and all the rest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was made to be loved,—but remember, she won't love you,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The men who trust her the least are the sailors who know her the best.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="heroes-of-the-titanic" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Heroes of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Titanic</i></h2>
			<p>
				<span>Honour the brave who sleep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the lost <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Titanic</i> lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The men who knew what a man must do</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When he looks Death in the eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Women and children first,”—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah, strong and tender cry!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sons whom women had borne and nursed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Remembered,—and dared to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The boats crept off in the dark:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The great ship groaned: and then,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O stars of the night, who saw that sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bear witness, <em>These were men</em>!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>November 9, 1912.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-standard-bearer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Standard-Bearer</h2>
			<section id="the-standard-bearer-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“How can I tell,” Sir Edmund said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Who has the right or the wrong o' this thing?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cromwell stands for the people's cause,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Charles is crowned by the ancient laws;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>English meadows are sopping red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Englishmen striking each other dead,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Times are black as a raven's wing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the ruck and the murk I see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Only one thing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The King has trusted his banner to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I must fight for the King.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-standard-bearer-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Into the thick of the Edgehill fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sir Edmund rode with a shout; and the ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of grim-faced, hard-hitting Parliament men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swallowed him up,—it was one against ten!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He fought for the standard with all his might,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never again did he come to sight—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Victor, hid by the raven's wing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the battle had passed we found</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Only one thing,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hand of Sir Edmund gripped around</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The banner-staff of his King.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>1914.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="peace-hymn-of-the-republic" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Peace-Hymn of the Republic</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Lord our God, Thy mighty hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hath made our country free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From all her broad and happy land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May praise arise to Thee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fulfill the promise of her youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her liberty defend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By law and order, love and truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America befriend!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The strength of every State increase</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Union's golden chain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her thousand cities fill with peace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her million fields with grain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The virtues of her mingled blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In one new people blend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By unity and brotherhood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America befriend!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O suffer not her feet to stray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But guide her untaught might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That she may walk in peaceful day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lead the world in light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring down the proud, lift up the poor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unequal ways amend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By justice, nation-wide and sure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America befriend!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thro' all the waiting land proclaim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy gospel of good-will;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And may the music of Thy name</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In every bosom thrill.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er hill and vale, from sea to sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy holy reign extend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By faith and hope and charity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America befriend!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="christmas-tears" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Christmas Tears</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The day returns by which we date our years:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Day of the joy of giving,—that means love;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Day of the joy of living,—that means hope;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Day of the Royal Child,—and day that brings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To older hearts the gift of Christmas tears!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Look, how the candles twinkle through the tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The children shout when baby claps his hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The room is full of laughter and of song!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your lips are smiling, dearest,—tell me why</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your eyes are brimming full of Christmas tears?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Was it a silent voice that joined the song?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A vanished face that glimmered once again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among the happy circle round the tree?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was it an unseen hand that touched your cheek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And brought the secret gift of Christmas tears?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not dark and angry like the winter storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of selfish grief,—but full of starry gleams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soft and still that others may not weep,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dews of remembered happiness descend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bless us with the gift of Christmas tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah, lose them not, dear heart,—life has no pearls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More pure than memories of joy love-shared.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See, while we count them one by one with prayer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Heavenly hope that lights the Christmas tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has made a rainbow in our Christmas tears!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1912.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="dorothea-1888-1912" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dorothea</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">1888-1912</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>A deeper crimson in the rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A deeper blue in sky and sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ever, as the summer goes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A deeper loss in losing thee!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A deeper music in the strain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of hermit-thrush from lonely tree;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And deeper grows the sense of gain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My life has found in having thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A deeper love, a deeper rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A deeper joy in all I see;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ever deeper in my breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A silver song that comes from thee!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>Seal Harbour, August 1, 1912.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="three-prayers-for-sleep-and-waking" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Three Prayers for Sleep and Waking</h2>
			<section id="three-prayers-for-sleep-and-waking-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Bedtime</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Ere thou sleepest gently lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every troubled thought away:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put off worry and distress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As thou puttest off thy dress:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drop thy burden and thy care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the quiet arms of prayer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<em>Lord, Thou knowest how I live,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>All I've done amiss forgive:</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>All of good I've tried to do,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Strengthen, bless, and carry through,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>All I love in safety keep,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>While in Thee I fall asleep.</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="three-prayers-for-sleep-and-waking-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Night Watch</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>If slumber should forsake</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy pillow in the dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fret not thyself to mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How long thou liest awake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is a better way;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let go the strife and strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thine eyes will close again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If thou wilt only pray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<em>Lord, Thy peaceful gift restore,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Give my body sleep once more:</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>While I wait my soul will rest</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Like a child upon Thy breast.</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="three-prayers-for-sleep-and-waking-3">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">New Day</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Ere thou risest from thy bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speak to God Whose wings were spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O'er thee in the helpless night:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo, He wakes thee now with light!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lift thy burden and thy care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the mighty arms of prayer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<em>Lord, the newness of this day</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Calls me to an untried way:</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Let me gladly take the road,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Give me strength to bear my load,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Thou my guide and helper be—</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>I will travel through with Thee.</em>
					</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>The Mission Inn, California, Easter, 1913.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="inscription-for-a-tomb-in-england" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Inscription for a Tomb in England</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Read here, O friend unknown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our grief, of her bereft;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet think not tears alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within our hearts are left.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gifts she came to give,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her heavenly love and cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have made us glad to live</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And die without a fear.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1912.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="thorn-and-rose" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thorn and Rose</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Far richer than a thornless rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose branch with beauty never glows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is that which every June adorns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With perfect bloom among its thorns.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Merely to live without a pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is little gladness, little gain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, welcome joy tho' mixt with grief,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thorn-set flower that crowns the leaf.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>June 20, 1914.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="stain-not-the-sky" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Stain Not the Sky</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Ye gods of battle, lords of fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Who work your iron will as well</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As once ye did with sword and spear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With rifled gun and rending shell,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Masters of sea and land, forbear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fierce invasion of the inviolate air!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">With patient daring man hath wrought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A hundred years for power to fly;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And will you make his winged thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A hovering horror in the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where flocks of human eagles sail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dropping their bolts of death on hill and dale?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Ah no, the sunset is too pure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The dawn too fair, the noon too bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For wings of terror to obscure</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Their beauty, and betray the night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That keeps for man, above his wars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tranquil vision of untroubled stars.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Pass on, pass on, ye lords of fear!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Your footsteps in the sea are red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And black on earth your paths appear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With ruined homes and heaps of dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pass on to end your transient reign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leave the blue of heaven without a stain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The wrong ye wrought will fall to dust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The right ye shielded will abide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The world at last will learn to trust</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">In law to guard, and love to guide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Peace of God that answers prayer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will fall like dew from the inviolate air.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>March 5, 1914.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="how-spring-comes-to-shasta-jim" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">How Spring Comes to Shasta Jim</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I never seen no “red gods”; I dunno wot's a “lure”;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But if it's sumpin' takin', then Spring has got it sure;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' it doesn't need no Kiplins, ner yet no London Jacks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make up guff about it, w'ile settin' in their shacks.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It's sumpin' very simple 'at happens in the Spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it changes all the lookin's of every blessed thing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The buddin' woods look bigger, the mounting twice as high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the house looks kindo smaller, tho I couldn't tell ye why.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It's cur'ous wot a show-down the month of April makes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Between the reely livin', an' the things 'at's only fakes!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Machines an' barns an' buildin's, they never give no sign;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the livin' things look lively w'en Spring is on the line.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She doesn't come too suddin, ner she doesn't come too slow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her gaits is some cayprishus, an' the next ye never know,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A single-foot o' sunshine, a buck o' snow er hail,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But don't be disapp'inted, fer Spring ain't goin' ter fail.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She's loopin' down the hillside,—the driffs is fadin' out.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She's runnin' down the river,—d'ye see them risin' trout?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She's loafin' down the canyon,—the squaw-bed's growin' blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' the teeny Johnny-jump-ups is jest a-peekin' thru.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A thousan' miles o' pine-trees, with Douglas firs between,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is waitin' fer her fingers to freshen up their green;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With little tips o' brightness the firs 'ill sparkle thick,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' every yaller pine-tree, a giant candle-stick!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The underbrush is risin' an' spreadin' all around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jest like a mist o' greenness 'at hangs above the ground;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A million manzanitas 'ill soon be full o' pink;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So saddle up, my sonny,—it's time to ride, I think!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We'll ford er swim the river, becos there ain't no bridge;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We'll foot the gulches careful, an' lope along the ridge;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We'll take the trail to Nowhere, an' travel till we tire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' camp beneath a pine-tree, an' sleep beside the fire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We'll see the blue-quail chickens, an' hear 'em pipin' clear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' p'raps we'll sight a brown-bear, er else a bunch o' deer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But nary a heathen goddess or god 'ill meet our eyes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For why? There isn't any! They're jest a pack o' lies!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, wot's the use o' “red gods,” an' “Pan,” an' all that stuff?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The natcheral facts o' Springtime is wonderful enuff!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' if there's Someone made 'em, I guess He understood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To be alive in Springtime would make a man feel good.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>California, 1913.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="anglers-fireside-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Angler's Fireside Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, the angler's path is a very merry way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his road through the world is bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he lives with the laughing stream all day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And he lies by the fire at night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Sing hey nonny, ho nonny</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And likewise well-a-day!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">The angler's life is a very jolly life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And that's what the anglers say!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, the angler plays for the pleasure of the game,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his creel may be full or light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the tale that he tells will be just the same</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When he lies by the fire at night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Sing hey nonny, ho nonny</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And likewise well-a-day!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">We love the fire and the music of the lyre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And that's what the anglers say!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>To the San Francisco Fly-Casting Club, April, 1913.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="a-bunch-of-trout-flies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Bunch of Trout-Flies</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">For Archie Rutledge</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Here's a half-a-dozen flies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just about the proper size</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the trout of Dickey's Run,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Luck go with them every one!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dainty little feathered beauties,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listen now, and learn your duties:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not to tangle in the box;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not to catch on logs or rocks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Boughs that wave or weeds that float,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor in the angler's “pants” or coat!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not to lure the glutton frog</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From his banquet in the bog;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor the lazy chub to fool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Splashing idly round the pool;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor the sullen hornèd pout</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the mud to hustle out!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>None of this vulgarian crew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dainty flies, is game for you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Darting swiftly through the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Guided by the angler's care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Light upon the flowing stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a wingèd fairy dream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Float upon the water dancing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the lights and shadows glancing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the rippling current brings you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with quiet motion swings you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where a speckled beauty lies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Watching you with hungry eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here's your game and here's your prize!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hover near him, lure him, tease him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do your very best to please him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dancing on the water foamy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the frail and fair Salome,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the monarch yields at last;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rises, and you have him fast!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then remember well your duty,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do not lose, but land, your booty;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the finest fish of all is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<i xml:lang="la">Salvelinus Fontinalis.</i>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So, you plumed illusions, go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let my comrade Archie know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every day he goes a-fishing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll be with him in well-wishing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Most of all when lunch is laid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dappled orchard shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With Will, Corinne, and Dixie too,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sitting as we used to do</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Round the white cloth on the grass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the lazy hours pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the brook's contented tune</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lulls the sleepy afternoon,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then's the time my heart will be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With that pleasant company!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>June 17, 1913.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="a-ballad-of-santa-claus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Ballad of Santa Claus</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">For the St. Nicholas Society of New York</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Among the earliest saints of old, before the first Hegira,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I find the one whose name we hold, St. Nicholas of Myra:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The best-beloved name, I guess, in sacred nomenclature,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The patron-saint of helpfulness, and friendship, and good-nature.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A bishop and a preacher too, a famous theologian,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He stood against the Arian crew and fought them like a Trojan:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when a poor man told his need and begged an alms in trouble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He never asked about his creed, but quickly gave him double.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Three pretty maidens, so they say, were longing to be married;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they were paupers, lack-a-day, and so the suitors tarried.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>St. Nicholas gave each maid a purse of golden ducats chinking,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then, for better or for worse, they wedded quick as winking.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once, as he sailed, a storm arose; wild waves the ship surrounded;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sailors wept and tore their clothes, and shrieked “We'll all be drownded!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>St. Nicholas never turned a hair; serenely shone his halo;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He simply said a little prayer, and all the billows lay low.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The wicked keeper of an inn had three small urchins taken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cut them up in a pickle-bin, and salted them for bacon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>St. Nicholas came and picked them out, and put their limbs together,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They lived, they leaped, they gave a shout, “St. Nicholas forever!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thus it came to pass, you know, that maids without a nickel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sailor-lads when tempest blow, and children in a pickle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every man that's fatherly, and every kindly matron,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In choosing saints would all agree to call St. Nicholas patron.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He comes again at Christmas-time and stirs us up to giving;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He rings the merry bells that chime good-will to all the living;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He blesses every friendly deed and every free donation;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He sows the secret, golden seed of love through all creation.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our fathers drank to Santa Claus, the sixth of each December,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And still we keep his feast because his virtues we remember.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among the saintly ranks he stood, with smiling human features,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And said, “<em>Be good! But not too good to love your fellow-creatures!</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>December 6, 1907.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-little-neck-clam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Little-Neck Clam</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">A modern verse-sequence, showing how a native American subject, strictly realistic, may be treated in various manners adapted to the requirements of different magazines, thus combining Art-for-Art's-Sake with Writing-for-the-Market. Read at the First Dinner of the American Periodical Publishers' Association, in Washington, April, 1904.</p>
			</header>
			<section id="the-little-neck-clam-1">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
						<p epub:type="title">The Anti-Trust Clam</p>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">For <i>McClure's Magazine</i></p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The clam that once, on Jersey's banks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was like the man who dug it, free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now slave-like thro' the market clanks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In chains of corporate tyranny.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Standard Fish-Trust of New York</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Holds every clam-bank in control;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like base Beef and menial Pork,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The free-born Clam has lost its soul.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more the bivalve treads the sands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In freedom's rapture, free from guilt:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It follows now the harsh commands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Morgiman and Rockabilt.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rise, freemen, rise! Your wrath is just!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Call on the Sherman Act to dam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The floods of this devouring Trust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And liberate the fettered Clam.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-little-neck-clam-2">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
						<p epub:type="title">The Whitmaniac Clam</p>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">For the <i>Bookman</i></p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Not Dante when he wandered by the river Arno,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not Burns who plowed the banks and braes of bonnie Ayr,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not even Shakspere on the shores of Avon,—ah, no!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not one of those great bards did taste true Poet's Fare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But Whitman, loafing in Long Island and New Jersey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Found there the sustenance of mighty ode and psalm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And while his rude emotions swam around in verse, he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fed chiefly on the wild, impassioned, sea-born clam.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus in his work we feel the waves' bewildering motion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And winds from mighty mud-flats, weird and wild:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His clam-filled bosom answered to the voice of ocean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rose and fell responsively with every tide.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-little-neck-clam-3">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
						<p epub:type="title" xml:lang="it">Il Mercatore Italiano Della Clamma</p>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">For the <i>Century Magazine</i></p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Clam O! Fres' Clam!” How strange it sounds and sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Dago's cry along the New York street!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Dago” we call him, like the thoughtless crowd;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet this humble man may well be proud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hail from Petrarch's land, Boccaccio's home,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Firenze, Gubbio, Venezia, Rome,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From fair Italia, whose enchanted soil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Transforms the lowly cotton-seed to olive-oil.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To me his chant, with alien accent sung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brings back an echo of great Virgil's tongue:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seems to cry against the city's woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In liquid Latin syllables,—<i>Clamo</i>!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As thro' the crowded street his cart he jams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cries aloud, ah, think of more than clams!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Receive his secret plaint with pity warm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And grant Italia's plea for Tenement-House Reform!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-little-neck-clam-4">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
						<p epub:type="title">The Social Clam</p>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">For the <i>Smart Set</i></p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Fair Phyllis is another's bride:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therefore I like to sit beside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her at a very smart set dinner,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And whisper love, and try to win her.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The little-necks,—in number six,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That from their pearly shells she picks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swallows whole,—ah, is it selfish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wish my heart among those shell-fish?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But Phyllis is another's wife;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if she should absorb thy life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twould leave thy bosom vacant.”—Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'd keep at least the empty shell!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-little-neck-clam-5">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
						<p epub:type="title">The Recreant Clam</p>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">For the <i>Outlook</i></p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Low dost thou lie amid the languid ooze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because thy slothful spirit doth refuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bliss of battle and the strain of strife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rise, craven clam, and lead the strenuous life!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="ars-agricolaris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ars Agricolaris</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">An Ode for the “Farmer's Dinner,” University Club, New York, January 23, 1913</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>All hail, ye famous Farmers!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye vegetable-charmers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who know the art of making barren earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smile with prolific mirth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bring forth twins or triplets at a birth!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye scientific fertilizers of the soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And horny-handed sons of toil!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To-night from all your arduous cares released,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With manly brows no longer sweat-impearled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye hold your annual feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like the Concord farmers long ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye meet above the “Bridge” below,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And draw the cork heard round the world!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What memories are yours! What tales</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of triumph have your tongues rehearsed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Telling how ye have won your first</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Potatoes from the stubborn mead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(Almost as many as ye sowed for seed!)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how the luscious cabbages and kails</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have bloomed before you in their bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At seven dollars a head!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how your onions took a prize</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For bringing tears into the eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a hard-hearted cook! And how ye slew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Dragon Cut-worm at a stroke!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And how ye broke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Routed, and put to flight the horrid crew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of vile potato-bugs and Hessian flies!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And how ye did not quail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before th' invading armies of San José Scale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But met them bravely with your little pail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of poison, which ye put upon each tail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O' the dreadful beasts and made their courage fail!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And how ye did acquit yourselves like men</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">In fields of agricultural strife, and then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Like generous warriors, sat you down at ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And gently to your gardener said, “Let us have <em>Pease</em>!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But <em>were</em> there Pease? Ah, no, dear Farmers, no!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The course of Nature is not ordered so.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For when we want a vegetable most,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">She holds it back;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And when we boast</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To our week-endly friends</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of what we'll give them on our farm, alack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those things the old dam, Nature, never sends.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Pease in bottles, Sparrow-grass in jars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How often have ye saved from scars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of shame, and deep embarrassment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The disingenuous farmer-gent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To whom some wondering guest has cried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">“How <em>do</em> you raise such Pease and Sparrow-grass?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Whereat the farmer-gent has not denied</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The compliment, but smiling has replied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">“To raise such things you must have lots of glass.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From wiles like these, true Farmers, hold aloof;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Accept no praise unless you have the proof.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If niggard Nature should withhold the green</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sugary Pea, welcome the humble Bean.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even the easy Radish, and the Beet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If grown by your own toil are extra sweet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let malefactors of great wealth and banker-felons</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoice in foreign artichokes, imported melons;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you, my Farmers, at your frugal board</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spread forth the fare your Sabine Farms afford.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say to Mæcenas, when he is your guest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“No peaches! try this turnip, 'tis my best.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus shall ye learn from labors in the field</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What honesty a farmer's life may yield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like G. Washington in early youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though cherries fail, produce a crop of truth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But think me not too strict, O followers of the plough;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some place for fiction in your lives I would allow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In January when the world is drear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bills come in, and no results appear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And snow-storms veil the skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And ice the streamlet clogs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then may you warm your heart with pleasant lies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And revel in the seedsmen's catalogues!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What visions and what dreams are these</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Of cauliflower obese,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of giant celery, taller than a mast,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Of strawberries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like red pincushions, round and vast,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of succulent and spicy gumbo,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of cantaloupes, as big as Jumbo,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of high-strung beans without the strings,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of a host of other wild, romantic things!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Why, then, should Doctor Starr declare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That modern habits mental force impair?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And why should H. Marquand complain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That jokes as good as his will never come again?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And why should Bridges wear a gloomy mien</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About the lack of fiction for his Magazine?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The seedsman's catalogue is all we need</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">To stir our dull imaginations</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">To new creations,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And lead us, by the hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Of Hope, into a fairy-land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So dream, my friendly Farmers, as you will;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let your fancy all your garners fill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With wondrous crops; but always recollect</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Nature gives us less than we expect.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scorn not the city where you earn the wealth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That, spent upon your farms, renews your health;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tell your wife, whene'er the bills have shocked her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“A country-place is cheaper than a doctor.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May roses bloom for you, and may you find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your richest harvest in a tranquil mind.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-red-flower" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Red Flower</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">June, 1914</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>In the pleasant time of Pentecost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By the little river Kyll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I followed the angler's winding path</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or waded the stream at will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the friendly fertile German land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lay round me green and still.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But all day long on the eastern bank</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the river cool and clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the curving track of the double rails</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was hardly seen though near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The endless trains of German troops</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Went rolling down to Trier.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They packed the windows with bullet heads</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And caps of hodden gray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They laughed and sang and shouted loud</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the trains were brought to a stay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They waved their hands and sang again</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As they went on their iron way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No shadow fell on the smiling land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No cloud arose in the sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I could hear the river's quiet tune</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the trains had rattled by;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But my heart sank low with a heavy sense</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of trouble,—I knew not why.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then came I into a certain field</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the devil's paint-brush spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Mid the gray and green of the rolling hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A flaring splotch of red,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An evil omen, a bloody sign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And a token of many dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I saw in a vision the field-gray horde</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Break forth at the devil's hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And trample the earth into crimson mud</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the rage of the Will to Power,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All this I dreamed in the valley of Kyll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At the sign of the blood-red flower.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-scrap-of-paper" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Scrap of Paper</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>Will you go to war just for a scrap of paper?</p>
					<cite>Question of the German Chancellor to the British Ambassador, August 5, 1914</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A mocking question! Britain's answer came</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swift as the light and searching as the flame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Yes, for a scrap of paper we will fight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till our last breath, and God defend the right!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“A scrap of paper where a name is set</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is strong as duty's pledge and honor's debt.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“A scrap of paper holds for man and wife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sacrament of love, the bond of life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“A scrap of paper may be Holy Writ</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With God's eternal word to hallow it.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“A scrap of paper binds us both to stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Defenders of a neutral neighbor land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“By God, by faith, by honor, yes! We fight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To keep our name upon that paper white.”</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>September, 1914.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="stand-fast" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Stand Fast</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Stand fast, Great Britain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Together England, Scotland, Ireland stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One in the faith that makes a mighty land,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>True to the bond you gave and will not break</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fearless in the fight for conscience' sake!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the Giant Robber clad in steel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With blood of trampled Belgium on his heel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Striding through France to strike you down at last,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Britain, stand fast!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Stand fast, brave land!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Huns are thundering toward the citadel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They prate of Culture but their path is Hell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their light is darkness, and the bloody sword</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They wield and worship is their only Lord.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O land where reason stands secure on right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O land where freedom is the source of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the mailed Barbarians' deadly blast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Britain, stand fast!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Stand fast, dear land!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou island mother of a world-wide race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose children speak thy tongue and love thy face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their hearts and hopes are with thee in the strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their hands will break the sword that seeks thy life;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fight on until the Teuton madness cease;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fight bravely on, until the word of peace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is spoken in the English tongue at last,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Britain, stand fast!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>September, 1914</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="lights-out" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lights Out</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">(1915)</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>“Lights out” along the land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Lights out” upon the sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The night must put her hiding hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er peaceful towns where children sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And peaceful ships that darkly creep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the waves, as if they were not free.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The dragons of the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hell-hounds of the deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lurking and prowling everywhere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go forth to seek their helpless prey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not knowing whom they maim or slay—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mad harvesters, who care not what they reap.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Out with the tranquil lights,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out with the lights that burn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For love and law and human rights!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Set back the clock a thousand years:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All they have gained now disappears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the dark ages suddenly return.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Kaiser, who loosed wild death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And terror in the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God grant you draw no quiet breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the madness you began</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is ended, and long-suffering man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Set free from war lords, cries, “Let there be Light.”</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>October, 1915</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="remarks-about-kings" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Remarks About Kings</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>God said I am tired of kings.</p>
					<cite>Emerson</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>God said, “I am tired of kings,”—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But that was a long while ago!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And meantime man said, “No,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I like their looks in their robes and rings.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he crowned a few more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they went on playing the game as before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fighting and spoiling things.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Man said, “I am tired of kings!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sons of the robber-chiefs of yore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They make me pay for their lust and their war;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the puppet, they pull the strings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The blood of my heart is the wine they drink.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will govern myself for awhile I think,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And see what that brings!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God, who made the first remark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smiled in the dark.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>October, 1915</p>
				<p>Read at the meeting of the American Academy, Boston, November, 1915</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="might-and-right" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Might and Right</h2>
			<p>
				<span>If Might made Right, life were a wild-beasts' cage;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If Right made Might, this were the golden age;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now, until we win the long campaign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Right must gain Might to conquer and to reign.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>July 1, 1915.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-price-of-peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Price of Peace</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Peace without Justice is a low estate,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A coward cringing to an iron Fate!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Peace through Justice is the great ideal,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We'll pay the price of war to make it real.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="storm-music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Storm-Music</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Music hast thou only heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The laughing river, the singing bird,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The murmuring wind in the poplar-trees,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nothing but Nature's melodies?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nay, thou hearest all her tones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">As a Queen must hear!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Sounds of wrath and fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Mutterings, shouts, and moans,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Madness, tumult, and despair,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All she has that shakes the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With voices fierce and wild!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art a Queen and not a dreaming child,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Put on thy crown and let us hear thee reign</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Triumphant in a world of storm and strain!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Echo the long-drawn sighs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the mounting wind in the pines;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sobs of the mounting waves that rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the dark of the troubled deep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To break on the beach in fiery lines.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Echo the far-off roll of thunder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Rumbling loud</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And ever louder, under</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The blue-black curtain of cloud,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the lightning serpents gleam.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Echo the moaning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the forest in its sleep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like a giant groaning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the torment of a dream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Now an interval of quiet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For a moment holds the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the breathless hush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of a silent prayer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Then the sudden rush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the rain, and the riot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the shrieking, tearing gale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Breaks loose in the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a fusillade of hail!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hear the forest fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With its tossing arms that crack and clash</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the thunder's cannonade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While the lightning's forked flash</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brings the old hero-trees to the ground with a crash!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hear the breakers' deepening roar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Driven like a herd of cattle</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the wild stampede of battle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trampling, trampling, trampling, to overwhelm the shore!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Is it the end of all?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Will the land crumble and fall?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nay, for a voice replies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Out of the hidden skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thus far, O sea, shalt thou go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So long, O wind, shalt thou blow:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Return to your bounds and cease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let the earth have peace!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">O Music, lead the way—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The stormy night is past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lift up our hearts to greet the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And the joy of things that last.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The dissonance and pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That mortals must endure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are changed in thine immortal strain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To something great and pure.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">True love will conquer strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And strength from conflict flows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For discord is the thorn of life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And harmony the rose.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>May, 1916.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-bells-of-malines" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Bells of Malines</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">August 17, 1914</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>The gabled roofs of old Malines</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are russet red and gray and green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o'er them in the sunset hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Looms, dark and huge, St. Rombold's tower.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High in that rugged nest concealed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sweetest bells that ever pealed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The deepest bells that ever rung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lightest bells that ever sung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are waiting for the master's hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fling their music o'er the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And shall they ring to-night, Malines?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In nineteen hundred and fourteen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The frightful year, the year of woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When fire and blood and rapine flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the land from lost Liège,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Storm-driven by the German rage?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The other carillons have ceased:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fallen is Hasselt, fallen Diest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Ghent and Bruges no voices come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Antwerp is silent, Brussels dumb!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But in thy belfry, O Malines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The master of the bells unseen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has climbed to where the keyboard stands,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To-night his heart is in his hands!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once more, before invasion's hell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breaks round the tower he loves so well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once more he strikes the well-worn keys,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sends aërial harmonies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far-floating through the twilight dim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In patriot song and holy hymn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O listen, burghers of Malines!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soldier and workman, pale bèguine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mother with a trembling flock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of children clinging to thy frock,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look up and listen, listen all!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What tunes are these that gently fall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around you like a benison?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The Flemish Lion,” “Brabançonne,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“O brave Liége,” and all the airs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Belgium in her bosom bears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ring up, ye silvery octaves high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose notes like circling swallows fly;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ring, each old sonorous bell,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Jesu,” “Maria,” “Michaël!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weave in and out, and high and low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The magic music that you know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let it float and flutter down</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To cheer the heart of the troubled town.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ring out, “Salvator,” lord of all,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Roland” in Ghent may hear thee call!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O brave bell-music of Malines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this dark hour how much you mean!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dreadful night of blood and tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweeps down on Belgium, but she hears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deep in her heart the melody</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of songs she learned when she was free.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She will not falter, faint, nor fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But fight until her rights prevail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all her ancient belfries ring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The Flemish Lion,” “God Save the King!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-name-of-france" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Name of France</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Give us a name to fill the mind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the shining thoughts that lead mankind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glory of learning, the joy of art,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A name that tells of a splendid part</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the long, long toil and the strenuous fight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the human race to win its way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the feudal darkness into the day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Freedom, Brotherhood, Equal Right,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A name like a star, a name of light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I give you <em>France</em>!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Give us a name to stir the blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a warmer glow and a swifter flood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the touch of a courage that conquers fear,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A name like the sound of a trumpet, clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And silver-sweet, and iron-strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That calls three million men to their feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ready to march, and steady to meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The foes who threaten that name with wrong,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A name that rings like a battle-song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I give you <em>France</em>!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Give us a name to move the heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the strength that noble griefs impart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A name that speaks of the blood outpoured</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To save mankind from the sway of the sword,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A name that calls on the world to share</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the burden of sacrificial strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the cause at stake is the world's free life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the rule of the people everywhere,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A name like a vow, a name like a prayer.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I give you <em>France</em>!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>The Hague, September, 1916.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="come-back-again-jeanne-darc" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Come Back Again, Jeanne D'Arc</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The land was broken in despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The princes quarrelled in the dark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When clear and tranquil, through the troubled air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of selfish minds and wills that did not dare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Your star arose, Jeanne d'Arc.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O virgin breast with lilies white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O sun-burned hand that bore the lance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You taught the prayer that helps men to unite,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You brought the courage equal to the fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">You gave a heart to France!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your king was crowned, your country free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At Rheims you had your soul's desire:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then, at Rouen, maid of Domrémy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The black-robed judges gave your victory</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">The martyr's crown of fire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now again the times are ill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And doubtful leaders miss the mark;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The people lack the single faith and will</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make them one,—your country needs you still,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Come back again, Jeanne d'Arc!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O woman-star, arise once more</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And shine to bid your land advance:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The old heroic trust in God restore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Renew the brave, unselfish hopes of yore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And give a heart to France!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>Paris, July, 1909.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="jeanne-darc-returns" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jeanne D'Arc Returns</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">1914-1916</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>What hast thou done, O womanhood of France,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mother and daughter, sister, sweetheart, wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What hast thou done, amid this fateful strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To prove the pride of thine inheritance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this fair land of freedom and romance?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I hear thy voice with tears and courage rife,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Smiling against the swords that seek thy life,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make answer in a noble utterance:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I give France all I have, and all she asks.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would it were more! Ah, let her ask and take:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My hands to nurse her wounded, do her tasks,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My feet to run her errands through the dark,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart to bleed in triumph for her sake,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all my soul to follow thee, Jeanne d'Arc!”</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>April 16, 1916.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-heavenly-hills-of-holland" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Heavenly Hills of Holland</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The heavenly hills of Holland,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How wondrously they rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above the smooth green pastures</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into the azure skies!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With blue and purple hollows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With peaks of dazzling snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along the far horizon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The clouds are marching slow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No mortal foot has trodden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The summits of that range,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor walked those mystic valleys</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose colours ever change;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet we possess their beauty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And visit them in dreams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While ruddy gold of sunset</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From cliff and canyon gleams.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In days of cloudless weather</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They melt into the light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When fog and mist surround us</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They're hidden from our sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when returns a season</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Clear shining after rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the northwest wind is blowing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We see the hills again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The old Dutch painters loved them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their pictures show them fair,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Hobbema and Ruysdael,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Van Goyen and Vermeer.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above the level landscape,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rich polders, long-armed mills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Canals and ancient cities,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Float Holland's heavenly hills.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>The Hague, November, 1916.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-proud-lady" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Proud Lady</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When Stävoren town was in its prime</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And queened the Zuyder Zee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her ships went out to every clime</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With costly merchantry.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A lady dwelt in that rich town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fairest in all the land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She walked abroad in a velvet gown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With many rings on her hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her hair was bright as the beaten gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her lips as coral red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her roving eyes were blue and bold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And her heart with pride was fed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For she was proud of her father's ships,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As she watched them gaily pass;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pride looked out of her eyes and lips</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When she saw herself in the glass.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Now come,” she said to the captains ten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who were ready to put to sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Ye are all my men and my father's men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And what will ye do for me?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Go north and south, go east and west,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And get me gifts,” she said.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And he who bringeth me home the best,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With that man will I wed.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So they all fared forth, and sought with care</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In many a famous mart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For satins and silks and jewels rare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To win that lady's heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She looked at them all with never a thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And careless put them by;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I am not fain of the things ye brought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Enough of these have I.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The last that came was the head of the fleet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His name was Jan Borel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He bent his knee at the lady's feet,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In truth he loved her well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I've brought thee home the best i' the world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A shipful of Danzig corn!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She stared at him long; her red lips curled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her blue eyes filled with scorn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Now out on thee, thou feckless kerl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A loon thou art,” she said.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Am I a starving beggar girl?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall I ever lack for bread?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Go empty all thy sacks of grain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into the nearest sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never show thy face again</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To make a mock of me.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Young Jan Borel, he answered naught,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But in the harbour cast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sacks of golden corn he brought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And groaned when fell the last.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then Jan Borel, he hoisted sail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And out to sea he bore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He passed the Helder in a gale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And came again no more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the grains of corn went drifting down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like devil-scattered seed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sow the harbour of the town</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a wicked growth of weed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The roots were thick and the silt and sand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were gathered day by day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till not a furlong out from land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A shoal had barred the way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then Stävoren town saw evil years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No ships could out or in,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The boats lay rotting at the piers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the mouldy grain in the bin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The grass-grown streets were all forlorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The town in ruin stood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lady's velvet gown was torn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her rings were sold for food.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her father had perished long ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But the lady held her pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She walked with a scornful step and slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till at last in her rags she died.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet still on the crumbling piers of the town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the midnight moon shines free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman walks in a velvet gown</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And scatters corn in the sea.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1917.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="flood-tide-of-flowers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Flood-Tide of Flowers</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">In Holland</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The laggard winter ebbed so slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With freezing rain and melting snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seemed as if the earth would stay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forever where the tide was low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In sodden green and watery gray.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now from depths beyond our sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tide is turning in the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And floods of colour long concealed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come silent rising toward the light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through garden bare and empty field.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And first, along the sheltered nooks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The crocus runs in little brooks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of joyance, till by light made bold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They show the gladness of their looks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In shining pools of white and gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tiny scilla, sapphire blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is gently seeping in, to strew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The earth with heaven; and sudden rills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sunlit yellow, sweeping through,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spread into lakes of daffodils.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The hyacinths, with fragrant heads,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have overflowed their sandy beds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fill the earth with faint perfume,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The breath that Spring around her sheds.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now the tulips break in bloom!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A sea, a rainbow-tinted sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A splendour and a mystery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Floods o'er the fields of faded gray:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The roads are full of folks in glee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For lo,—to-day is Easter Day!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>April, 1916.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="americas-prosperity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">America's Prosperity</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They tell me thou art rich, my country: gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In glittering flood has poured into thy chest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy flocks and herds increase, thy barns are pressed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With harvest, and thy stores can hardly hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their merchandise; unending trains are rolled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Along thy network rails of East and West;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy factories and forges never rest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art enriched in all things bought and sold!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But dost <em>thou</em> prosper? Better news I crave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O dearest country, is it well with thee</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Indeed, and is thy soul in health?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A nobler people, hearts more wisely brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And thoughts that lift men up and make them free,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">These are prosperity and vital wealth!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>The Hague, October 1, 1916.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-glory-of-ships" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Glory of Ships</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The glory of ships is an old, old song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">since the days when the sea-rovers ran,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In their open boats through the roaring surf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">and the spread of the world began;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glory of ships is a light on the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">and a star in the story of man.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Homer sang of the galleys of Greece</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">that conquered the Trojan shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Solomon lauded the barks of Tyre</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">that brought great wealth to his door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Twas little they knew, those ancient men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">what would come of the sail and the oar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Greek ships rescued the West from the East,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">when they harried the Persians home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Roman ships were the wings of strength</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">that bore up the empire, Rome;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the ships of Spain found a wide new world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">far over the fields of foam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the tribes of courage at last saw clear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">that the ocean was not a bound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But a broad highway, and a challenge to seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">for treasure as yet unfound;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So the fearless ships fared forth to the search,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">in joy that the globe was round.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their hulls were heightened, their sails spread out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">they grew with the growth of their quest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They opened the secret doors of the East,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">and the golden gates of the West;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And many a city of high renown</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">was proud of a ship on its crest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The fleets of England and Holland and France</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">were at strife with each other and Spain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And battle and storm sent a myriad ships</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">to sleep in the depths of the main;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the seafaring spirit could never be drowned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">and it filled up the fleets again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They greatened and grew, with the aid of steam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">to a wonderful, vast array,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That carries the thoughts and the traffic of men</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">into every harbor and bay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now in the world-wide work of the ships</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'tis England that leads the way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O well for the leading that follows the law</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">of a common right on the sea!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ill for the leader who tries to hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">what belongs to mankind in fee!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The way of the ships is an open way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">and the ocean must ever be free!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Remember, O first of the maritime folk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">how the rise of your greatness began.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It will live if you safeguard the round-the-world road</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">from the shame of a selfish ban;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the glory of ships is a light on the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">and a star in the story of man!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>September 12, 1916.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="mare-liberum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mare Liberum</h2>
			<section id="mare-liberum-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You dare to say with perjured lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“We fight to make the ocean free”?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em>, whose black trail of butchered ships</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bestrews the bed of every sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where German submarines have wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their horrors! Have you never thought,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What you call freedom, men call piracy!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="mare-liberum-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Unnumbered ghosts that haunt the wave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where you have murdered, cry you down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seamen whom you would not save,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weave now in weed-grown depths a crown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of shame for your imperious head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dark memorial of the dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Women and children whom you sent to drown.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="mare-liberum-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, not till thieves are set to guard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gold, and corsairs called to keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O'er peaceful commerce watch and ward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wolves to herd the helpless sheep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall men and women look to thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou ruthless Old Man of the Sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To safeguard law and freedom on the deep!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="mare-liberum-4">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In nobler breeds we put our trust:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nations in whose sacred lore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The “Ought” stands out above the “Must,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And honor rules in peace and war.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With these we hold in soul and heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With these we choose our lot and part,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Liberty is safe on sea and shore.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p><span epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">London Times</span>, February 12, 1917.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="liberty-enlightening-the-world" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“Liberty Enlightening the World”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Thou warden of the western gate, above Manhattan Bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fogs of doubt that hid thy face are driven clean away:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thine eyes at last look far and clear, thou liftest high thy hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To spread the light of liberty world-wide for every land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No more thou dreamest of a peace reserved alone for thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While friends are fighting for thy cause beyond the guardian sea:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The battle that they wage is thine; thou fallest if they fall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The swollen flood of Prussian pride will sweep unchecked o'er all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O cruel is the conquer-lust in Hohenzollern brains:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The paths they plot to gain their goal are dark with shameful stains;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No faith they keep, no law revere, no god but naked Might;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are the foemen of mankind. Up, Liberty, and smite!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Britain, and France, and Italy, and Russia newly born,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have waited for thee in the night. Oh, come as comes the morn!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Serene and strong and full of faith, America, arise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With steady hope and mighty help to join thy brave Allies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O dearest country of my heart, home of the high desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make clean thy soul for sacrifice on Freedom's altar-fire:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thou must suffer, thou must fight, until the warlords cease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the peoples lift their heads in liberty and peace.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p><span epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">London Times</span>, April 12, 1917.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-oxford-thrushes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Oxford Thrushes</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">February, 1917</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>I never thought again to hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Oxford thrushes singing clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amid the February rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their sweet, indomitable strain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A wintry vapor lightly spreads</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among the trees, and round the beds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where daffodil and jonquil sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only the snowdrop wakes to weep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is not springtime yet. Alas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What dark, tempestuous days must pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till England's trial by battle cease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And summer comes again with peace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The lofty halls, the tranquil towers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Learning in untroubled hours</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Held her high court, serene in fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are lovely still, yet not the same.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The novices in fluttering gown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No longer fill the ancient town;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But fighting men in khaki drest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the Schools the wounded rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah, far away, 'neath stranger skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full many a son of Oxford lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And whispers from his warrior grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I died to keep the faith you gave.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The mother mourns, but does not fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her courage and her love prevail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er sorrow, and her spirit hears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The promise of triumphant years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then sing, ye thrushes, in the rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your sweet indomitable strain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye bring a word from God on high</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And voices in our hearts reply.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="homeward-bound" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Homeward Bound</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Home, for my heart still calls me;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Home, through the danger zone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Home, whatever befalls me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I will sail again to my own!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wolves of the sea are hiding</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Closely along the way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under the water biding</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their moment to rend and slay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Black is the eagle that brands them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Black are their hearts as the nights</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Black is the hate that sends them</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To murder but not to fight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Flower of the German Culture,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Boast of the Kaiser's Marine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Choose for your emblem the vulture,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cowardly, cruel, obscene!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Forth from her sheltered haven</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our peaceful ship glides slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Noiseless in flight as a raven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gray as a hoodie crow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She doubles and turns in her bearing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like a twisting plover she goes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The way of her westward faring</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Only the captain knows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In a lonely bay concealing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She lingers for days, and slips</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At dusk from her covert, stealing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thro' channels feared by the ships.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Brave are the men, and steady,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who guide her over the deep,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>British mariners, ready</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To face the sea-wolf's leap.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lord of the winds and waters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bring our ship to her mark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Safe from this game of hide-and-seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With murderers in the dark!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>On the S.S. <span epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Baltic</span>, May, 1917.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-peaceful-warrior" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Peaceful Warrior</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I have no joy in strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Peace is my great desire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet God forbid I lose my life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through fear to face the fire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A peaceful man must fight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For that which peace demands,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Freedom and faith, honor and right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Defend with heart and hands.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Farewell, my friendly books;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Farewell, ye woods and streams;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fate that calls me forward looks</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To a duty beyond dreams.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, better to be dead</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a face turned to the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than live beneath a slavish dread</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And serve a giant lie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Stand up, my heart, and strive</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the things most dear to thee!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why should we care to be alive</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unless the world is free?</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>May, 1918.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-winds-of-war-news" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Winds of War-News</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The winds of war-news change and veer:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now westerly and full of cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now easterly, depressing, sour</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With tidings of the Teutons' power.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But thou, America, whose heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With brave Allies has taken part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be not a weathercock to change</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With these wild winds that shift and range.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Be thou a compass ever true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through sullen clouds or skies of blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To that great star which rules the night,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The star of Liberty and Right.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lover of peace, oh set thy soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy strength, thy wealth, thy conscience whole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To win the peace thine eyes foresee,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The triumph of Democracy.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>December 19, 1917.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="righteous-wrath" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Righteous Wrath</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There are many kinds of anger, as many kinds of fire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some are fierce and fatal with murderous desire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some are mean and craven, revengeful, sullen, slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They hurt the man that holds them more than they hurt his foe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And yet there is an anger that purifies the heart:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The anger of the better against the baser part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the false and wicked, against the tyrant's sword,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the enemies of love, and all that hate the Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O cleansing indignation, O flame of righteous wrath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give me a soul to feel thee and follow in thy path!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save me from selfish virtue, arm me for fearless fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And give me strength to carry on, a soldier of the Right!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>January, 1918.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="facta-non-verba" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Facta Non Verba</h2>
			<p>
				<span><em>Deeds not Words</em>: I say so too!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet I find it somehow true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A word may help a man in need,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To nobler act and braver deed.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="from-glory-unto-glory" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">From Glory Unto Glory</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">American Flag Song</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header role="presentation">
					<p>1776</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>O dark the night and dim the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When first our flag arose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It fluttered bravely in the fray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To meet o'erwhelming foes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our fathers saw the splendor shine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They dared and suffered all;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They won our freedom by the sign—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The holy sign, the radiant sign—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the stars that never fall.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header role="presentation">
					<p>Chorus</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">All hail to thee, Young Glory!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Among the flags of earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We'll ne'er forget the story</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of thy heroic birth.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header role="presentation">
					<p>1861</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>O wild the later storm that shook</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The pillars of the State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When brother against brother took</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The final arms of fate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But union lived and peace divine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enfolded brothers all;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flag floats o'er them with the sign—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loyal sign, the equal sign—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the stars that never fall.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header role="presentation">
					<p>Chorus</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">All hail to thee, Old Glory!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of thee our heart's desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Foretells a golden story,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For thou hast come through fire.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header role="presentation">
					<p>1917</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>O fiercer than all wars before</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That raged on land or sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Giant Robber's world-wide war</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the things that shall not be!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy sister banners hold the line;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To thee, dear flag, they call;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou hast joined them with the sign—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The heavenly sign, the victor sign—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the stars that never fall.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header role="presentation">
					<p>Chorus</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">All hail to thee, New Glory!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">We follow thee unfurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To write the larger story</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of Freedom for the World.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<footer>
				<p>September 4, 1918.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-signs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Signs</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">Dedicated to the Zodiac Club</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Who knows how many thousand years ago</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The twelvefold Zodiac was made to show</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The course of stars above and men below?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The great sun plows his furrow by its “lines”:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From all its “houses” mystic meaning shines:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deep lore of life is written in its “signs.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Aries</em>—Sacrifice.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Snow-white and sacred is the sacrifice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Heaven demands for what our heart doth prize:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The man who fears to suffer, ne'er can rise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Taurus</em>—Strength.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoice, my friend, if God has made you strong:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Put forth your force to move the world along:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet never shame your strength to do a wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Gemini</em>—Brotherhood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bitter his life who lives for self alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poor would he be with riches and a throne:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But friendship doubles all we are and own.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Cancer</em>—The Wisdom of Retreat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Learn from the crab, O runner fresh and fleet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sideways to move, or backward, when discreet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life is not all advance,—sometimes retreat!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Leo</em>—Fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sign of Leo is the sign of fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hatred we hate: but no man should desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A heart too cold to flame with righteous ire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Virgo</em>—Love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mysterious symbol, words are all in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To tell the secret power by which you reign.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The more we love, the less we can explain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Libra</em>—Justice.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Examine well the scales with which you weigh;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let justice rule your conduct every day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For when you face the Judge you'll need fair play.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Scorpio</em>—Self-Defense.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There's not a creature in the realm of night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But has the wish to live, likewise the right:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don't tread upon the scorpion, or he'll fight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Sagittarius</em>—The Archer.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life is an arrow, therefore you must know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What mark to aim at, how to use the bow,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then draw it to the head and let it go!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Capricornus</em>—The Goat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The goat looks solemn, yet he likes to run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leap the rocks, and gambol in the sun:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The truly wise enjoy a little fun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Aquarius</em>—Water.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Like water spilt upon the ground,”—alas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our little lives flow swiftly on and pass;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet may they bring rich harvests and green grass!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4"><em>Pisces</em>—The Fishes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Last of the sacred signs, you bring to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A word of hope, a word of mystery,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>We all are swimmers in God's mighty sea.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>February 28, 1918.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="britain-france-america" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Britain, France, America</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The rough expanse of democratic sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which parts the lands that live by liberty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is no division; for their hearts are one.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fight together till their cause is won.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For land and water let us make our pact,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And seal the solemn word with valiant act:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No continent is firm, no ocean pure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until on both the rights of man are sure.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>April, 1917.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-red-cross" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Red Cross</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sign of the Love Divine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That bends to bear the load</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of all who suffer, all who bleed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Along life's thorny road:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sign of the Heart Humane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That through the darkest fight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would bring to wounded friend and foe</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A ministry of light:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O dear and holy sign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lead onward like a star!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The armies of the just are thine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all we have and are.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>October 20, 1918.</p>
				<p>For the Red Cross Christmas Roll Call.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="easter-road" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Easter Road</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">1918</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Under the cloud of world-wide war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While earth is drenched with sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have no heart for idle merrymaking,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or for the fashioning of glad raiment.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will retrace the divine footmarks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the Road of the first Easter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Down through the valley of utter darkness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dripping with blood and tears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the hill of the skull, the little hill of great anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ambuscade of Death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the no-man's-land of Hades</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bearing despatches of hope to spirits in prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mortally stricken and triumphant</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Went the faithful Captain of Salvation.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then upward, swiftly upward,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Victory, liberty, glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The feet that were wounded walked in the tranquil garden,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bathed in dew and the light of deathless dawn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O my soul, my comrades, soldiers of freedom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Follow the pathway of Easter, for there is no other,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Follow it through to peace, yea, follow it fighting.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This Armageddon is not darker than Calvary.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The day will break when the Dragon is vanquished;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He that exalteth himself as God shall be cast down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Lords of war shall fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the long, long terror be ended,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Victory, justice, peace enduring!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They that die in this cause shall live forever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they that live shall never die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They shall rejoice together in the Easter of a new world.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>March 31, 1918.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="americas-welcome-home" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">America's Welcome Home</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, gallantly they fared forth in khaki and in blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America's crusading host of warriors bold and true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They battled for the rights of man beside our brave Allies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now they're coming home to us with glory in their eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Oh, it's home again, and home again, America for me!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Our hearts are turning home again and there we long to be,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>In our beautiful big country beyond the ocean bars,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our boys have seen the Old World as none have seen before.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They know the grisly horror of the German gods of war:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The noble faith of Britain and the hero-heart of France,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soul of Belgium's fortitude and Italy's romance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They bore our country's great word across the rolling sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“America swears brotherhood with all the just and free.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They wrote that word victorious on fields of mortal strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And many a valiant lad was proud to seal it with his life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, welcome home in Heaven's peace, dear spirits of the dead!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And welcome home ye living sons America hath bred!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lords of war are beaten down, your glorious task is done;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You fought to make the whole world free, and the victory is won.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Now it's home again, and home again, our hearts are turning west,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Of all the lands beneath the sun America is best.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>We're going home to our own folks, beyond the ocean bars,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>November 11, 1918.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-surrender-of-the-german-fleet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Surrender of the German Fleet</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ship after ship, and every one with a high-resounding name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the robber-nest of Heligoland the German war-fleet came;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not victory or death they sought, but a rendezvous of shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>Sing out, sing out,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>A joyful shout,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>Ye lovers of the sea!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>The “Kaiser” and the “Kaiserin,”</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>The “König” and the “Prinz,”</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>The potentates of piracy,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>Are coming to surrender,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>And the ocean shall be free.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They never dared the final fate of battle on the blue;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their sea-wolves murdered merchantmen and mocked the drowning crew;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They stained the wave with martyr-blood,—but we sent our transports through!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What flags are these that dumbly droop from the gaff o' the mainmast tall?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The black of the Kaiser's iron cross, the red of the Empire's fall!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come down, come down, ye pirate flags. Yea, strike your colors all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Union Jack and the Tricolor and the Starry Flag o' the West</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall guard the fruit of Freedom's war and the victory confest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flags of the brave and just and free shall rule on the ocean's breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>Sing out, sing out,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>A mighty shout,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>Ye lovers of the sea!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>The “Kaiser” and the “Kaiserin,”</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>The “König” and the “Prinz,”</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>The robber-lords of death and sin,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>Have come to their surrender,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">
					<em>And the ocean shall be free!</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>November 20, 1918.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="golden-stars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Golden Stars</h2>
			<section id="golden-stars-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was my lot of late to travel far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through all America's domain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A willing, gray-haired servitor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bearing the Fiery Cross of righteous war.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And everywhere, on mountain, vale and plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In crowded street and lonely cottage door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw the symbol of the bright blue star.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Millions of stars! Rejoice, dear land, rejoice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That God hath made thee great enough to give</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath thy starry flag unfurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A gift to all the world,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy living sons that Liberty might live.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="golden-stars-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It seems but yesterday they sallied forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boys of the east, the west, the south, the north,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High-hearted, keen, with laughter and with song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fearless of lurking danger on the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eager to fight in Flanders or in France</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the monstrous German wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sure of victory!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brothers in soul with British and with French</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They held their ground in many a bloody trench;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the swift word came—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Advance!</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the top they went through waves of flame,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confident, reckless, irresistible,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Real Americans,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their rush was never stayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until the foe fell back, defeated and dismayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O land that bore them, write upon thy roll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of battles won</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To liberate the human soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Château Thierry and Saint Mihiel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fierce agony of the Argonne;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, count among thy little rivers, dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because of friends whose feet have trodden there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Marne, the Meuse, and the Moselle.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="golden-stars-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Now the vile sword</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Potsdam forged and bathed in hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is beaten down, the victory given</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the sword forged in faith and bathed in heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now home again our heroes come:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, welcome them with bugle and with drum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ring bells, blow whistles, make a joyful noise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto the Lord,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And welcome home our blue-star boys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose manhood has made known</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all the world America,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unselfish, brave and free, the Great Republic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who lives not to herself alone.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="golden-stars-4">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But many a lad we hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear in our heart of hearts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is missing from the home-returning host.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, say not they are lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For they have found and given their life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sacrificial strife:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their service stars have changed from blue to gold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That sudden rapture took them far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet are they here with us to-day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even as the heavenly stars we cannot see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the bright veil of sunlight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shed their influence still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On our vexed life, and promise peace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From God to all men of good will.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="golden-stars-5">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What wreaths shall we entwine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For our dear boys to deck their holy shrine?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mountain-laurel, morning-glory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Goldenrod and asters blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Purple loosestrife, prince's-pine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wild-azalea, meadow-rue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nodding-lilies, columbine,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the native blooms that grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In these fresh woods and pastures new,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein they loved to ramble and to play.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bring no exotic flowers:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>America was in their hearts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they are ours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ever and a day.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="golden-stars-6">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O happy warriors, forgive the tear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Falling from eyes that miss you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgive the word of grief from mother-lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That ne'er on earth shall kiss you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear only what our hearts would have you hear,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glory and praise and gratitude and pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the dear country in whose cause you died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now you have run your race and won your prize,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old age shall never burden you, the fears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And conflicts that beset our lingering years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall never vex your souls in Paradise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Immortal, young, and crowned with victory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From life's long battle you have found release.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And He who died for all on Calvary</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has welcomed you, brave soldiers of the cross,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into eternal Peace.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="golden-stars-7">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come, let us gird our loins and lift our load,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Companions who are left on life's rough road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bravely take the way that we must tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To keep true faith with our beloved dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To conquer war they dared their lives to give,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To safeguard peace our hearts must learn to live.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Help us, dear God, our forward faith to hold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We want a better world than that of old.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lead us on paths of high endeavor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toiling upward, climbing ever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ready to suffer for the right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until at last we gain a loftier height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More worthy to behold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our guiding stars, our hero-stars of gold.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>Ode for the Memorial Service, Princeton University, December 15, 1918.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-song-sparrow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Song-Sparrow</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There is a bird I know so well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It seems as if he must have sung</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beside my crib when I was young;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before I knew the way to spell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The name of even the smallest bird,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His gentle-joyful song I heard.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now see if you can tell, my dear.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What bird it is that, every year,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sings “<em>Sweet—sweet—sweet—very merry cheer.</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He comes in March, when winds are strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And snow returns to hide the earth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But still he warms his heart with mirth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And waits for May. He lingers long</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While flowers fade; and every day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Repeats his small, contented lay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if to say, we need not fear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The season's change, if love is here</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With “<em>Sweet—sweet—sweet—very merry cheer.</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He does not wear a Joseph's-coat</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of many colours, smart and gay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His suit is Quaker brown and gray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With darker patches at his throat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And yet of all the well-dressed throng</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Not one can sing so brave a song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It makes the pride of looks appear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A vain and foolish thing, to hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His “<em>Sweet—sweet—sweet—very merry cheer.</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A lofty place he does not love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But sits by choice, and well at ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In hedges, and in little trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That stretch their slender arms above</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The meadow-brook; and there he sings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till all the field with pleasure rings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And so he tells in every ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That lowly homes to heaven are near</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In “<em>Sweet—sweet—sweet—very merry cheer.</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I like the tune, I like the words;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They seem so true, so free from art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So friendly, and so full of heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That if but one of all the birds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Could be my comrade everywhere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My little brother of the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'd choose the song-sparrow, my dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because he'd bless me, every year,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With “<em>Sweet—sweet—sweet—very merry cheer.</em>”</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1895.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="dulciora" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dulciora</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Long, long ago I heard a little song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Ah, was it long ago, or yesterday?)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So lowly, slowly wound the tune along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That far into my heart it found the way:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A melody consoling and endearing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now, in silent hours, I'm often hearing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The small, sweet song that does not die away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long, long ago I saw a little flower—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Ah, was it long ago, or yesterday?)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So fair of face and fragrant for an hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That something dear to me it seemed to say,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wordless joy that blossomed into being;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now, in winter days, I'm often seeing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The friendly flower that does not fade away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long, long ago we had a little child,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Ah, was it long ago, or yesterday?)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into his mother's eyes and mine he smiled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unconscious love; warm in our arms he lay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An angel called! Dear heart, we could not hold him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet secretly your arms and mine infold him—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our little child who does not go away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long, long ago? Ah, memory, make it clear—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(It was not long ago, but yesterday.)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So little and so helpless and so dear—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let not the song be lost, the flower decay!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His voice, his waking eyes, his gentle sleeping:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The smallest things are safest in thy keeping,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sweet memory, keep our child with us alway.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>November, 1903.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="salute-to-the-trees" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Salute to the Trees</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Many a tree is found in the wood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every tree for its use is good:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some for the strength of the gnarled root,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some for the sweetness of flower or fruit;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some for shelter against the storm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some to keep the hearth-stone warm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some for the roof, and some for the beam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some for a boat to breast the stream;--</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the wealth of the wood since the world began</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The trees have offered their gifts to man.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the glory of trees is more than their gifts:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Tis a beautiful wonder of life that lifts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From a wrinkled seed in an earth-bound clod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A column, an arch in the temple of God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A pillar of power, a dome of delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A shrine of song, and a joy of sight!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their roots are the nurses of rivers in birth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their leaves are alive with the breath of the earth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They shelter the dwellings of man; and they bend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er his grave with the look of a loving friend.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have camped in the whispering forest of pines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have slept in the shadow of olives and vines;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the knees of an oak, at the foot of a palm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have found good rest and slumber's balm.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now, when the morning gilds the boughs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the vaulted elm at the door of my house,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I open the window and make salute:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"God bless thy branches and feed thy root!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast lived before, live after me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou ancient, friendly, faithful tree."</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>February, 1920.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="voyagers" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Voyagers</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>The sea is his, and he made it.</p>
					<cite>Psalm 45:5</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>O Maker of the Mighty Deep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whereon our vessels fare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above our life's adventure keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy faithful watch and care.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Thee we trust, whate'er befall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sea is great, our boats are small.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We know not where the secret tides</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will help us or delay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor where the lurking tempest hides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor where the fogs are gray.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We trust in Thee, whate'er befall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sea is great, our boats are small.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When outward bound we boldly sail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And leave the friendly shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let not our heart of courage fail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until the voyage is o'er.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We trust in Thee, whate'er befall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sea is great, our boats are small.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When homeward bound we gladly turn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O bring us safely there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where harbor-lights of friendship burn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And peace is in the air.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We trust in Thee, whate'er befall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sea is great, our boats are small.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beyond the circle of the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When voyaging is past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We seek our final port in Thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O bring us home at last.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Thee we trust, whate'er befall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sea is great, our boats are small.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>8.6.8.6.4.4.4.4</p>
				<p>Meiringen.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-burning-bush" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Burning Bush</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>I will now turn aside and see this great sight.</p>
					<cite>Exodus 3:3</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Thy wisdom and Thy might appear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eternal God, through every year;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From day to day, from hour to hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy works reveal self-ordered power.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We worship Thee whose will hath laid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sovereign rule on all things made;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The faithful stars, the fruitful earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Obey Thy laws that gave them birth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet Thou canst make a marvel shine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amid these mighty laws of Thine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As when Thy servant Moses came</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And saw the bush with Thee aflame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We turn aside and tread the ways</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That lead through wonder up to praise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wherever Thou by man art found</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The homely earth is holy ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If Thou hast formed us out of dust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through ages long,--in Thee we trust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O grant us in our souls to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The living flame that comes from Thee.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>L. M.</p>
				<p>Canonbury.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="children-in-the-market-place" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Children in the Market-Place</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>They are like children in the market-place.</p>
					<cite>Luke 7:32</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Like children in the market-place</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who weary of their play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We turn from folly's idle race</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And come to Thee today.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Jesus, teller of the tale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That never will grow old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy words of living truth prevail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our listening hearts to hold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tell us of Father-love that speaks</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Peace to the wandering child;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of valiant Shepherd-love that seeks</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The lost sheep in the wild;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of deep Redeemer-love that knows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What sins we need forgiven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on the Magdalen bestows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The purest joy of Heaven.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tell us of faith that's like a sword,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And hope that's like a star;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How great the patient soul's reward,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How blest the loyal are.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell us of courage like a wall</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No storm can batter down;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell us of men who venture all</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For Thee, and win a crown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tell us that life is not a game,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But real and brave and true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A journey with a glorious aim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A quest to carry through.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell us that though our wills are weak</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And though we children be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The everlasting good we seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We can attain through Thee.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>C. M. D.</p>
				<p>St. Leonard.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="jesus-return" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Jesus Return</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.</p>
					<cite><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John 14:18</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Return, dear Lord, to those who look</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With eager eyes that yearn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Thee among the garden flowers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>After the dark and lonely hours,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As morning light return.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Return to those who wander far,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With lamps that dimly burn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along the troubled road of thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where doubt and conflict come unsought,--</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With inward joy return.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Return to those on whom the yoke</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of life is hard and stern;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Renew the hope within their breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Draw them to Thee and give them rest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Friend of Man, return.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Return to this war-weary world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And help us all to learn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy secret of victorious life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The love that triumphs over strife,--</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O prince of Peace, return.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jesus, we ask not now that day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When all men shall discern</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy coming with the angelic host;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Today, to all who need Thee most,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In silent ways, return!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>8.6.8.8.6</p>
				<p>Elton.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="one-in-christ" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">One in Christ</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>Other sheep I have, which are not of this fold.</p>
					<cite><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John 10:16</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>No form of human framing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No bond of outward might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can bind Thy Church together, Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all her flocks unite;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, Jesus, Thou hast told us</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How unity must be:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art with God the Father one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And we are one in Thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The mind that is in Jesus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will guide us into truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The humble, open, joyful mind</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of ever-learning youth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The heart that is in Jesus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will lead us out of strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The giving and forgiving heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That follows love in life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wherever men adore Thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our souls with them would kneel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wherever men implore Thy help,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their trouble we would feel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where men do Thy service,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though knowing not Thy sign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our hand is with them in good work,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For they are also Thine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Forgive us, Lord, the folly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That quarrels with Thy friends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And draw us nearer to Thy heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where every discord ends;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art the crown of manhood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Thou of God the Son;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Master of our many lives,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In Thee our life is one.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>7.6.8.6.D.</p>
				<p>Alford.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="foundations" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Foundations</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>Those things which cannot be shaken</p>
					<cite>Hebrews 12:28</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Now again the world is shaken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tempests break on sea and shore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Earth with ruin overtaken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Trembles while the storm-winds roar.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He abideth who confideth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God is God forevermore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thrones are falling, heathen raging,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Peoples dreaming as of yore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Vain imaginations, waging</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Man with man, unmeaning war.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He abideth who confideth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Christ is King forevermore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Human wisdom in confusion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Casts away the forms it wore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ancient error, new illusion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lose the phantom fruit they bore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He abideth who confideth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Truth is truth forevermore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Right eternal, Love immortal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Built the House where we adore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mercy is its golden portal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Virtue its unshaken floor.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He abideth who confideth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God is God forevermore.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>8.7.8.7.4.4.7.</p>
				<p>Regent Square.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="victoria" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Victoria</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>Be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.</p>
					<cite><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John 16:33</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Thy victory is in the heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy kingdom is within;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When outward pride and pomp depart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy glory doth begin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thine army, ever in the field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is led by love and light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy followers fall but never yield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Triumphant in the right.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O King most meek and wonderful,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grant us among Thy host,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To follow Thee, to fight for Thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knights of the Holy Ghost.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>C. M.</p>
				<p>St. Anne.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-foolish-fir-tree" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Foolish Fir-Tree</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">
					<em>A tale that the poet Rückert told</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">
					<em>To German children, in days of old;</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">
					<em>Disguised in a random, rollicking rhyme</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">
					<em>Like a merry mummer of ancient time,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">
					<em>And sent, in its English dress, to please</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">
					<em>The little folk of the Christmas trees.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A little fir grew in the midst of the wood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Contented and happy, as young trees should.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His body was straight and his boughs were clean;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And summer and winter the bountiful sheen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of his needles bedecked him, from top to root,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a beautiful, all-the-year, evergreen suit.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But a trouble came into his heart one day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he saw that the other trees were gay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the wonderful raiment that summer weaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of manifold shapes and kinds of leaves:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He looked at his needles so stiff and small,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thought that his dress was the poorest of all.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then jealousy clouded the little tree's mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he said to himself, “It was not very kind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To give such an ugly old dress to a tree!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If the fays of the forest would only ask me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'd tell them how I should like to be dressed,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a garment of gold, to bedazzle the rest!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he fell asleep, but his dreams were bad.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he woke in the morning, his heart was glad;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For every leaf that his boughs could hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was made of the brightest beaten gold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I tell you, children, the tree was proud;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was something above the common crowd;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he tinkled his leaves, as if he would say</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To a pedlar who happened to pass that way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Just look at me! Don't you think I am fine?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wouldn't you like such a dress as mine?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Oh, yes!” said the man, “and I really guess</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I must fill my pack with your beautiful dress.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he picked the golden leaves with care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And left the little tree shivering there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Oh, why did I wish for golden leaves?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fir-tree said, “I forgot that thieves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would be sure to rob me in passing by.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If the fairies would give me another try,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'd wish for something that cost much less,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And be satisfied with glass for my dress!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then he fell asleep; and, just as before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fairies granted his wish once more.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the night was gone, and the sun rose clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tree was a crystal chandelier;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it seemed, as he stood in the morning light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That his branches were covered with jewels bright.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Aha!” said the tree. “This is something great!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he held himself up, very proud and straight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But a rude young wind through the forest dashed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a reckless temper, and quickly smashed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The delicate leaves. With a clashing sound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They broke into pieces and fell on the ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a silvery, shimmering shower of hail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the tree stood naked and bare to the gale.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then his heart was sad; and he cried, “Alas</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For my beautiful leaves of shining glass!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps I have made another mistake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In choosing a dress so easy to break.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If the fairies only would hear me again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'd ask them for something both pretty and plain:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It wouldn't cost much to grant my request,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In leaves of green lettuce I'd like to be dressed!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By this time the fairies were laughing, I know;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they gave him his wish in a second; and so</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With leaves of green lettuce, all tender and sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tree was arrayed, from his head to his feet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I knew it!” he cried, “I was sure I could find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sort of a suit that would be to my mind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There's none of the trees has a prettier dress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And none as attractive as I am, I guess.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But a goat, who was taking an afternoon walk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By chance overheard the fir-tree's talk.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he came up close for a nearer view;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“My salad!” he bleated, “I think so too!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You're the most attractive kind of a tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I want your leaves for my five-o'clock tea.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he ate them all without saying grace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And walked away with a grin on his face;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the little tree stood in the twilight dim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With never a leaf on a single limb.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then he sighed and groaned; but his voice was weak—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was so ashamed that he could not speak.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knew at last he had been a fool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To think of breaking the forest rule,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And choosing a dress himself to please,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because he envied the other trees.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it couldn't be helped, it was now too late,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He must make up his mind to a leafless fate!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he let himself sink in a slumber deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he moaned and he tossed in his troubled sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the morning touched him with joyful beam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he woke to find it was all a dream.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there in his evergreen dress he stood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A pointed fir in the midst of the wood!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His branches were sweet with the balsam smell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His needles were green when the white snow fell.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And always contented and happy was he,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The very best kind of a Christmas tree.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="rencontre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">“Rencontre”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, was I born too soon, my dear, or were you born too late,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I am going out the door while you come in the gate?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For you the garden blooms galore, the castle is <em>en fête</em>;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are the coming guest, my dear,—for me the horses wait.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I know the mansion well, my dear, its rooms so rich and wide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you had only come before I might have been your guide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hand in hand with you explore the treasures that they hide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you have come to stay, my dear, and I prepare to ride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then walk with me an hour, my dear, and pluck the reddest rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amid the white and crimson store with which your garden glows,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A single rose,—I ask no more of what your love bestows;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is enough to give, my dear,—a flower to him who goes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The House of Life is yours, my dear, for many and many a day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I must ride the lonely shore, the Road to Far Away:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So bring the stirrup-cup and pour a brimming draught, I pray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when you take the road, my dear, I'll meet you on the way.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="day-and-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Day and Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>
					<em>How long is the night, brother,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>And how long is the day?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, the day's too short for a happy task,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the day's too short for play;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the night's too short for the bliss of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For look, how the edge of the sky grows gray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the stars die out in the blue above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the wan moon fades away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>
					<em>How short is the day, brother,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>And how short is the night?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, the day's too long for a heavy task,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And long, long, long is the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the wakeful hours are filled with pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the sad heart waits for the thing it fears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sighs for the dawn to come again,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The night is a thousand years!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>
					<em>How long is a life, dear God,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>And how fast does it flow?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The measure of life is a flame in the soul:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It is neither swift nor slow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the vision of time is the shadow cast</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By the fleeting world on the body's wall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When it fades there is neither future nor past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But love is all in all.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-hour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Hour</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You only promised me a single hour:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But in that hour I journeyed through a year</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of life: the joy of finding you,—the fear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of losing you again,—the sense of power</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make you all my own,—the sudden shower</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of tears that came because you were more dear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Than words could ever tell you,—then,—the clear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soft rapture when I plucked love's crimson flower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An hour,—a year,—I felt your bosom rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And fall with mystic tides, and saw the gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of undiscovered stars within your eyes,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A year,—an hour? I knew not, for the stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of love had carried me to Paradise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where all the forms of Time are like a dream.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Eight Echoes from the Poems of Auguste Angellier</h2>
			<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Ivory Cradle</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The cradle I have made for thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is carved of orient ivory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And curtained round with wavy silk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More white than hawthorn-bloom or milk.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A twig of box, a lilac spray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will drive the goblin-horde away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And charm thy childlike heart to keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her happy dream and virgin sleep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Within that pure and fragrant nest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll rock thy gentle soul to rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With tender songs we need not fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have a passing angel hear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, long and long I fain would hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The snowy curtain's guardian fold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around thy crystal visions, born</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In clearness of the early morn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But look, the sun is glowing red</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With triumph in his golden bed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aurora's virgin whiteness dies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In crimson glory of the skies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The rapid flame will burn its way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through these white curtains, too, one day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ivory cradle will be left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Undone, and broken, and bereft.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Dreams</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Often I dream your big blue eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though loth their meaning to confess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Regard me with a clear surprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of dawning tenderness.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Often I dream you gladly hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The words I hardly dare to breathe,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The words that falter in their fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To tell what throbs beneath.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Often I dream your hand in mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Falls like a flower at eventide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And down the path we leave a line</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of footsteps side by side.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But ah, in all my dreams of bliss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In passion's hunger, fever's drouth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never dare to dream of this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My lips upon your mouth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And so I dream your big blue eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That look on me with tenderness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grow wide, and deep, and sad, and wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dim with dear distress.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-3">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Garland of Sleep</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>A wreath of poppy flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With leaves of lotus blended,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is carved on Life's facade of hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From night to night suspended.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Along the columned wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From birth's low portal starting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It flows, with even rise and fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To death's dark door of parting.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How short each measured arc,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How brief the columns' number!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wreath begins and ends in dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And leads from sleep to slumber.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The marble garland seems,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With braided leaf and bloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To deck the palace of our dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if it were a tomb.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-4">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Tranquil Habit</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Dear tranquil Habit, with her silent hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Doth heal our deepest wounds from day to day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With cooling, soothing oil, and firmly lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around the broken heart her gentle bands.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her nursing is as calm as Nature's care;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She doth not weep with us; yet none the less</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her quiet fingers weave forgetfulness,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We fall asleep in peace when she is there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the mirror of the mind her breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is like a cloud, to hide the fading trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of that dear smile, of that remembered face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose presence were the joy and pang of death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And he who clings to sorrow overmuch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Weeping for withered grief, has cause to bless,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">More than all cries of pity and distress,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear tranquil Habit, thy consoling touch!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-5">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Old Bridge</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>On the old, old bridge, with its crumbling stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All covered with lichens red and gray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two lovers were talking in sweet low tones:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">And we were they!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As he leaned to breathe in her willing ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The love that he vowed would never die,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He called her his darling, his dove most dear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">And he was I!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She covered her face from the pale moonlight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With her trembling hands, but her eyes looked through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And listened and listened with long delight:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">And she was you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On the old, old bridge, where the lichens rust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two lovers are learning the same old lore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He tells his love, and she looks her trust:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">But we,—no more!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-6">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Eyes and Lips</p>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-6-1">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Our silent eyes alone interpreted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The new-born feeling in the heart of each:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In yours I read your sorrow without speech,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your lonely struggle in their tears unshed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behind their dreamy sweetness, as a veil,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I saw the moving lights of trouble shine;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And then my eyes were brightened as with wine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My spirit reeled to see your face grow pale!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Our deepening love, that is not yet allowed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Another language than the eyes, doth learn</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To speak it perfectly: above the crowd</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our looks exchange avowals and desires,—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Like wave-divided beacon lights that burn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And talk to one another by their fires.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-6-2">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>When I embrace her in a fragrant shrine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of climbing roses, my first kiss shall fall</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">On you, sweet eyes, that mutely told me all,—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through you my soul will rise to make her mine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon your drooping lids, blue-veined and fair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The touch of tenderness I first will lay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">You springs of joy, lights of my gloomy day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose dear discovered secret bade me dare!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And when you open, eyes of my fond dove,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Your look will shine with new delight, made sure</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By this forerunner of a faithful love.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Tis just, dear eyes, so pensive and so pure,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That you should bear the sealing kisses true</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of love unhoped that came to me through you.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-6-3">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">3</h4>
					<p>
						<span>This was my thought; but when beneath the rose</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That hides the lonely bench where lovers rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In friendly dusk I held her on my breast</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For one brief moment,—while I saw you close,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dear, yielding eyes, as if your lids, blue-veined</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And pure, were meekly fain at last to bear</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The proffered homage of my wistful prayer,—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In that high moment, by your grace obtained,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Forgetting your avowals, your alarms,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Your anguish and your tears, sweet weary eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Forgetting that you gave her to my arms,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I broke my promise; and my first caress,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Ungrateful, sought her lips in sweet surprise,—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her lips, which breathed a word of tenderness!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-7">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">An Evocation</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>When first upon my brow I felt your kiss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A sudden splendour filled me, like the ray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That promptly runs to crown the hills with bliss</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of purple dawn before the golden day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ends the gloom it crosses at one leap.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My brow was not unworthy your caress;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For some foreboding joy had bade me keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From all affront the place your lips would bless.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet when your mouth upon my mouth did lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The royal touch, no rapture made me thrill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But I remained confused, ashamed, and still.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beneath your kiss, my queen without a stain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I felt,—like ghosts who rise at Judgment Day,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A throng of ancient kisses vile and vain!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-8">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Resignation</p>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-8-1">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Well, you will triumph, dear and noble friend!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The holy love that wounded you so deep</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Will bring you balm, and on your heart asleep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fragrant dew of healing will descend.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Your children,—ah, how quickly they will grow</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Between us, like a wall that fronts the sun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Lifting a screen with rosy buds o'errun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To hide the shaded path where I must go.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>You'll walk in light; and dreaming less and less</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of him who droops in gloom beyond the wall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your mother-soul will fill with happiness</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When first you hear your grandchild's babbling call,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beneath the braided bloom of flower and leaf</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That We has wrought to veil your vanished grief.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="eight-echoes-from-the-poems-of-auguste-angellier-8-2">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Then I alone shall suffer! I shall bear</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The double burden of our grief alone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While I enlarge my soul to take your share</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of pain and hold it close beside my own.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our love is torn asunder; but the crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of thorns that love has woven I will make</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My relic sacrosanct, and press it down</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Upon my bleeding heart that will not break.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Ah, that will be the depth of solitude!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For my regret, that evermore endures,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Will know that new-born hope has conquered yours;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And when the evening comes, no gentle brood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of wondering children, gathered at my side,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Will soothe away the tears I cannot hide.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<footer>
				<p>Freely rendered from the French, 1911.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="spirit-of-the-everlasting-boy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Spirit of the Everlasting Boy</h2>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">June 11, 1910</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">Ode for the Hundredth Anniversary of Lawrenceville School</p>
			</header>
			<section id="spirit-of-the-everlasting-boy-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The British bard who looked on Eton's walls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Endeared by distance in the pearly gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And soft aerial blue that ever falls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On English landscape with the dying day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beheld in thought his boyhood far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its random raptures and its festivals</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of noisy mirth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brief illusion of its idle joys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mourned that none of these can stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With men, whom life inexorably calls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To face the grim realities of earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His pensive fancy pictured there at play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From year to year the careless bands of boys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unconscious victims kept in golden state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">While haply they await</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dark approach of disenchanting Fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To hale them to the sacrifice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Pain and Penury and Grief and Care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slow-withering Age, or Failure's swift despair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half-pity and half-envy dimmed the eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that old poet, gazing on the scene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where long ago his youth had flowed serene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the burden of his ode was this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Where ignorance is bliss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">'Tis folly to be wise.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="spirit-of-the-everlasting-boy-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But not for us, O plaintive elegist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine epicedial tone of sad farewell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To joy in wisdom and to thought in youth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our western Muse would keep her tryst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sunrise, not with sunset, and foretell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In boyhood's bliss the dawn of manhood's truth.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="spirit-of-the-everlasting-boy-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">O spirit of the everlasting boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Alert, elate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And confident that life is good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Thou knockest boldly at the gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In hopeful hardihood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Eager to enter and enjoy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Thy new estate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through the old house thou runnest everywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bringing a breath of folly and fresh air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ready to make a treasure of each toy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or break them all in discontented mood;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Fearless of Fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet strangely fearful of a comrade's laugh;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Reckless and timid, hard and sensitive;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In talk a rebel, full of mocking chaff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">At heart devout conservative;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In love with love, yet hating to be kissed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Inveterate optimist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And judge severe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In reason cloudy but in feeling clear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Keen critic, ardent hero-worshipper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Impatient of restraint in little ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Yet ever ready to confer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On chosen leaders boundless power and praise;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Adventurous spirit burning to explore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Untrodden paths where hidden danger lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And homesick heart looking with wistful eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through every twilight to a mother's door;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou daring, darling, inconsistent boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">How dull the world would be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Without thy presence, dear barbarian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And happy lord of high futurity!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be what thou art, our trouble and our joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our hardest problem and our brightest hope!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And while thine elders lead thee up the slope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of knowledge, let them learn from teaching thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That vital joy is part of nature's plan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he who keeps the spirit of the boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall gladly grow to be a happy man.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="spirit-of-the-everlasting-boy-4">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">What constitutes a school?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not ancient halls and ivy-mantled towers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where dull traditions rule</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With heavy hand youth's lightly springing powers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not spacious pleasure courts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lofty temples of athletic fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where devotees of sports</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mistake a pastime for life's highest aim;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not fashion, nor renown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wealthy patronage and rich estate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No, none of these can crown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A school with light and make it truly great.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But masters, strong and wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who teach because they love the teacher's task,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And find their richest prize</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In eyes that open and in minds that ask;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And boys, with heart aglow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To try their youthful vigour on their work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Eager to learn and grow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And quick to hate a coward or a shirk:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These constitute a school,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A vital forge of weapons keen and bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where living sword and tool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are tempered for true toil or noble fight!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But let not wisdom scorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hours of pleasure in the playing fields:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There also strength is born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every manly game a virtue yields.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fairness and self-control,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good-humour, pluck, and patience in the race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will make a lad heart-whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To win with honour, lose without disgrace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ah, well for him who gains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In such a school apprenticeship to life:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With him the joy of youth remains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In later lessons and in larger strife!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="spirit-of-the-everlasting-boy-5">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On Jersey's rolling plain, where Washington,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In midnight marching at the head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ragged regiments, his army led</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Princeton's victory of the rising sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here in this liberal land, by battle won</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For Freedom and the rule</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of equal rights for every child of man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Arose a democratic school,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To train a virile race of sons to bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With thoughtful joy the name American,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And serve the God who heard their father's prayer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No cloister, dreaming in a world remote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From that real world wherein alone we live;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No mimic court, where titled names denote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dignity that only worth can give;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But here a friendly house of learning stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With open door beside the broad highway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And welcomed lads to study and to play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In generous rivalry of brotherhood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hundred years have passed, and Lawrenceville,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In beauty and in strength renewed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stands with her open portal still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And neither time nor fortune brings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To her deep spirit any change of mood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or faltering from the faith she held of old.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still to the democratic creed she clings:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That manhood needs nor rank nor gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make it noble in our eyes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That every boy is born with royal right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From blissful ignorance to rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To joy more lasting and more bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mastery of body and of mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>King of himself and servant of mankind.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="spirit-of-the-everlasting-boy-6">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Old Lawrenceville,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Thy happy bell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Shall ring to-day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">O'er vale and hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">O'er mead and dell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">While far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With silent thrill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The echoes roll</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Through many a soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That knew thee well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In boyhood's day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And loves thee still.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Ah, who can tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">How far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Some sentinel</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of God's good will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In forest cool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Or desert gray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">By lonely pool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Or barren hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Shall faintly hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With inward ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The chiming bell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of his old school,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through darkness pealing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lowly kneeling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Shall feel the spell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of grateful tears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">His eyelids fill;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And softly pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To Him who hears:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God bless old Lawrenceville!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="who-follow-the-flag" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Who Follow the Flag</h2>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">Phi Beta Kappa Ode</p>
				</hgroup>
				<div epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">
					<p>Harvard Univserity</p>
					<p>June 30, 1910</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<section id="who-follow-the-flag-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>All day long in the city's canyon-street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With its populous cliffs alive on either side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I saw a river of marching men like a tide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flowing after the flag: and the rhythmic beat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the drums, and the bugles' resonant blare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Metred the tramp, tramp, tramp of a myriad feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the red-white-and-blue was fluttering everywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the heart of the crowd kept time to a martial air:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>O brave flag, O bright flag, O flag to lead the free!</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>The glory of thy silver stars,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Engrailed in blue above the bars</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Of red for courage, white for truth,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Has brought the world a second youth</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>And drawn a hundred million hearts to follow after thee.</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="who-follow-the-flag-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Old Cambridge saw thee first unfurled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By Washington's far-reaching hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To greet, in Seventy-six, the wintry morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a new year, and herald to the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Glad tidings from a Western land,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A people and a hope new-born!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The double cross then filled thine azure field,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In token of a spirit loath to yield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The breaking ties that bound thee to a throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not for long thine oriflamme could bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That symbol of an outworn trust in kings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind that bore thee out on widening wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Called for a greater sign and all thine own,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A new device to speak of heavenly laws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lights that surely guide the people's cause.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, greatly did they hope, and greatly dare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who bade the stars in heaven fight for them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set upon their battle-flag a fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New constellation as a diadem!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the blood-stained banks of Brandywine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ragged troops were rallied to this sign;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through Saratoga's woods it fluttered bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid the perils of the hard-won fight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O'er Yorktown's meadows broad and green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It hailed the glory of the final scene;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when at length Manhattan saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The last invaders' line of scarlet coats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pass Bowling Green, and fill the waiting boats</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And sullenly withdraw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The flag that proudly flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the battered line of buff and blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marching, with rattling drums and shrilling pipes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the Bowery and down Broadway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was this that leads the great parade to-day,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The glorious banner of the stars and stripes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>First of the flags of earth to dare</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>A heraldry so high;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>First of the flags of earth to bear</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>The blazons of the sky;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Long may thy constellation glow,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>Foretelling happy fate;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Wider thy starry circle grow,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>And every star a State!</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="who-follow-the-flag-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Pass on, pass on, ye flashing files</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of men who march in militant array;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ye thrilling bugles, throbbing drums,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ring out, roll on, and die away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fade, ye crowds, with the fading day!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Around the city's lofty piles</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of steel and stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The lilac veil of dusk is thrown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entangled full of sparks of fairy light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the never-silent heart of the city hums</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a homeward-turning tune before the night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But far above, on the sky-line's broken height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From all the towers and domes outlined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In gray and gold along the city's crest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see the rippling flag still take the wind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a promise of good to come for all mankind.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="who-follow-the-flag-4">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">O banner of the west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">No proud and brief parade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That glorifies a nation's holiday</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With show of troops for warfare dressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Can rightly measure or display</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The mighty army thou hast made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loyal to guard thy more than royal sway.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Millions have come across the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To find beneath thy shelter room to grow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Millions were born beneath thy folds and know</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">No other flag but thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And other, darker millions bore the yoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of bondage in thy borders till the voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of Lincoln spoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sent thee forth to set the bondmen free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Rejoice, dear flag, rejoice!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since thou hast proved and passed that bitter strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Richer thy red with blood of heroes wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Purer thy white through sacrificial life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brighter thy blue wherein new stars are set.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Thou art become a sign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Revealed in heaven to speak of things divine:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of Truth that dares</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To slay the lie it sheltered unawares;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of Courage fearless in the fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet ever quick its foemen to forgive;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Conscience earnest to maintain its right</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gladly grant the same to all who live.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Thy staff is deeply planted in the fact</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That nothing can ennoble man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Save his own act,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And naught can make him worthy to be free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But practice in the school of liberty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cords are two that lift thee to the sky:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Firm faith in God, the King who rules on high;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And never-failing trust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In human nature, full of faults and flaws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet ever answering to the inward call</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That bids it set the “ought” above the “must,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all its errors wiser than it seems,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all its failures full of generous dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through endless conflict rising without pause</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To self-dominion, charactered in laws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That pledge fair-play alike to great and small,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And equal rights for each beneath the rule of all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">These are thy halyards, banner bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And while these hold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy brightness from the sky shall never fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy broadening empire never know decrease,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy strength is union and thy glory peace.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="who-follow-the-flag-5">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Look forth across thy widespread lands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O flag, and let thy stars to-night be eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To see the visionary hosts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of men and women grateful to be thine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That joyfully arise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From all thy borders and thy coasts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And follow after thee in endless line!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They lift to thee a forest of saluting hands;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They hail thee with a rolling ocean-roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of cheers; and as the echo dies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There comes a sweet and moving song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of treble voices from the childish throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who run to thee from every school-house door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold thine army! Here thy power lies:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The men whom freedom has made strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bound to follow thee by willing vows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The women greatened by the joys</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of motherhood to rule a happy house;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The vigorous girls and boys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose eager faces and unclouded brows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foretell the future of a noble race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rich in the wealth of wisdom and true worth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While millions such as these to thee belong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">What foe can do thee wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What jealous rival rob thee of thy place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Foremost of all the flags of earth?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="who-follow-the-flag-6">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My vision darkens as the night descends;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through the mystic atmosphere</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I feel the creeping coldness that portends</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A change of spirit in my dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The multitude that moved with song and cheer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Have vanished, yet a living stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Flows on and follows still the flag,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But silent now, with leaden feet that lag</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And falter in the deepening gloom,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A weird battalion bringing up the rear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, who are these on whom the vital bloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of life has withered to the dust of doom?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These little pilgrims prematurely worn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bent as if they bore the weight of years?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These childish faces, pallid and forlorn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too dull for laughter and too hard for tears?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is this the ghost of that insane crusade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That led ten thousand children long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A flock of innocents, deceived, betrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet pressing on through want and woe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To meet their fate, faithful and unafraid?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Nay, for a million children now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are marching in the long pathetic line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With weary step and early wrinkled brow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at their head appears no holy sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of hope in heaven;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For unto them is given</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No cross to carry, but a cross to drag.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before their strength is ripe they bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The load of labour, toiling underground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In dangerous mines and breathing heavy air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crowded shops; their tender lives are bound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To service of the whirling, clattering wheels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That fill the factories with dust and noise;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">They are not girls and boys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But little “hands” who blindly, dumbly feed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their own blood the hungry god of Greed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Robbed of their natural joys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wounded with a scar that never heals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They stumble on with heavy-laden soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fall by thousands on the highway lined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With little graves; or reach at last their goal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of stunted manhood and embittered age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To brood awhile with dark and troubled mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beside the smouldering fire of sullen rage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On life's unfruitful work and niggard wage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are these the regiments that Freedom rears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To serve her cause in coming years?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, every life that Avarice doth maim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beggar in the helpless days of youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Shall surely claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A just revenge, and take it without ruth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every soul denied the right to grow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the flag, shall be its secret foe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bow down, dear land, in penitence and shame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remember now thine oath, so nobly sworn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To guard an equal lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For every child within thy borders born!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These are thy children whom thou hast forgot:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They have the bitter right to live, but not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blessed right to look for happiness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O lift thy liberating hand once more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To loose thy little ones from dark duress;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vital gladness to their hearts restore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In healthful lessons and in happy play;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set them free to climb the upward way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That leads to self-reliant nobleness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speak out, my country, speak at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As thou hast spoken in the past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And clearly, bravely say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“I will defend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coming race on whom my hopes depend:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath my flag and on my sacred soil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No child shall bear the crushing yoke of toil.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="who-follow-the-flag-7">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Look up, look up, ye downcast eyes!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The night is almost gone:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the new horizon flies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The banner of the dawn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The eastern sky is banded low</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With white and crimson bars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While far above the morning glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The everlasting stars.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<em>O bright flag, O brave flag, O flag to lead the free!</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>The hand of God thy colours blent,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>And heaven to earth thy glory lent,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>To shield the weak, and guide the strong</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>To make an end of human wrong,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>And draw a countless human host to follow after thee!</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="in-the-blue-heaven" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">In the Blue Heaven</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In the blue heaven the clouds will come and go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scudding before the gale, or drifting slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As galleons becalmed in Sundown Bay:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And through the air the birds will wing their way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soaring to far-off heights, or flapping low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or darting like an arrow from the bow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the twilight comes the stars will show,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One after one, their tranquil bright array</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">In the blue heaven.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But ye who fearless flew to meet the foe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eagles of freedom,—nevermore, we know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall we behold you floating far away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet clouds and birds and every starry ray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will draw our heart to where your spirits glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">In the blue Heaven.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>For the American Aviators who died in the war.</p>
				<p>March, 1919.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="a-shrine-in-the-pantheon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Shrine in the Pantheon</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">For the Unnamed Soliders Who Died in France</p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">Universal approval has been accorded the proposal made in the French Chamber that the ashes of an unnamed French soldier, fallen for his country, shall be removed with solemn ceremony to the Pantheon. In this way it is intended to honor by a symbolic ceremony the memory of all who lie in unmarked graves.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Here the great heart of France,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Victor in noble strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth consecrate a Poilu's tomb</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To those who saved her life!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Brave son without a name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your country calls you home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To rest among her heirs of fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath the Pantheon's dome!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now from the height of Heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The souls of heroes look;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their names, ungraven on this stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are written in God's book.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Women of France, who mourn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your dead in unmarked ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come hither! Here the man you loved</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the heart of France is found!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="richard-watson-gilder" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Richard Watson Gilder</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">In Memoriam</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Soul of a soldier in a poet's frame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Heart of a hero in a body frail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thine was the courage clear that did not quail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before the giant champions of shame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who wrought dishonour to the city's name;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And thine the vision of the Holy Grail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of Love, revealed through Music's lucid veil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filling thy life with heavenly song and flame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pure was the light that lit thy glowing eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And strong the faith that held thy simple creed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Ah, poet, patriot, friend, to serve our need</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou leavest two great gifts that will not die:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above the city's noise, thy lyric cry,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Amid the city's strife, thy noble deed.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>November, 1909.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-valley-of-vain-verses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Valley of Vain Verses</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The grief that is but feigning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And weeps melodious tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of delicate complaining</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From self-indulgent years;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mirth that is but madness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And has no inward gladness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath its laughter straining,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To capture thoughtless ears;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The love that is but passion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of amber-scented lust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The doubt that is but fashion;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The faith that has no trust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These Thamyris disperses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the Valley of Vain Verses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Below the Mount Parnassian,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they crumble into dust.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-pipes-o-pan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Pipes O' Pan</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Great Nature had a million words,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In tongues of trees and songs of birds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But none to breathe the heart of man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till Music filled the pipes o' Pan.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1909.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-young-girl-singing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Young Girl Singing</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, what do you know of the song, my dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And how have you made it your own?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You have caught the turn of the melody clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And you give it again with a golden tone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Till the wonder-word and the wedded note</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Are flowing out of your beautiful throat</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With a liquid charm for every ear:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And they talk of your art,—but for you alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The song is a thing, unheard, unknown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You only have learned it by rote.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when you have lived for awhile, my dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I think you will learn it anew!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a joy will come, or a grief, or a fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That will alter the look of the world for you;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And the lyric you learned as a bit of art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Will wake to life as a wonderful part</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of the love you feel so deep and true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And the thrill of a laugh or the throb of a tear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Will come with your song to all who hear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For then you will know it by heart.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>April, 1911.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-old-flute" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Old Flute</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The time will come when I no more can play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This polished flute: the stops will not obey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My gnarled fingers; and the air it weaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In modulations, like a vine with leaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Climbing around the tower of song, will die</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In rustling autumn rhythms, confused and dry.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My shortened breath no more will freely fill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This magic reed with melody at will;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My stiffened lips will try and try in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To wake the liquid, leaping, dancing strain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The heavy notes will falter, wheeze, and faint,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or mock my ear with shrillness of complaint.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then let me hang this faithful friend of mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the trunk of some old, sacred pine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sit beneath the green protecting boughs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hear the viewless wind, that sings and soughs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above me, play its wild, aerial lute,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And draw a ghost of music from my flute!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So will I thank the gods; and most of all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Delian Apollo, whom men call</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mighty master of immortal sound,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord of the billows in their chanting round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord of the winds that fill the wood with sighs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord of the echoes and their sweet replies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord of the little people of the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That sprinkle drops of music everywhere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord of the sea of melody that laves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The universe with never silent waves,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Him will I thank that this brief breath of mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has caught one cadence of the song divine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And these frail fingers learned to rise and fall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In time with that great tune which throbs thro' all;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And these poor lips have lent a lilt of joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To songless men whom weary tasks employ!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My life has had its music, and my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In harmony has borne a little part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now I come with quiet, grateful breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Death's dim hall of silence and of rest.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>Freely rendered from the French of Auguste Angellier, 1911.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="a-fairy-tale" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Fairy Tale</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">For the Mark Twain Dinner, December 5, 1905</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Some three-score years and ten ago</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A prince was born at Florida, Mo.;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And though he came <em>incognito</em>,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With just the usual yells of woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The watchful fairies seemed to know</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Precisely what the row meant;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For when he was but five days old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(December fifth as I've been told,)</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They pattered through the midnight cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And came around his crib, to hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">A “Council of Endowment.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“I give him Wit,” the eldest said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And stooped above the little bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To touch his forehead round and red.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Within this bald, unfurnished head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where wild luxuriant locks shall spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And wave in years hereafter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I kindle now the lively spark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That still shall flash by day and dark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And everywhere he goes shall mark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">His way with light and laughter.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The fairies laughed to think of it</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That such a rosy, wrinkled bit</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of flesh should be endowed with Wit!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But something serious seemed to hit</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The mind of one, as if a fit</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Of fear had come upon her.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“I give him Truth,” she quickly cried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“That laughter may not lead aside</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To paths where scorn and falsehood hide,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">I give him Truth and Honour!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“I give him Love,” exclaimed the third;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And as she breathed the mystic word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I know not if the baby heard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But softly in his dream he stirred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And twittered like a little bird,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And stretched his hands above him.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fairy's gift was sealed and signed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With kisses twain the deed to bind:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“A heart of love to human-kind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And human-kind to love him!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Now stay your giving!” cried the Queen.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“These gifts are passing rich I ween;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And if reporters should be mean</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Enough to spy upon this scene,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'Twould make all other babies green</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">With envy at the rumour.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet since I love this child, forsooth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I'll mix your gifts, Wit, Love and Truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With spirits of Immortal Youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And call the mixture Humour!”</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:postscript">
					<p>
						<span>The fairies vanished with their glittering train;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But here's the Prince with all their gifts,</span>
					</p>
					<cite>—Mark Twain</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ballad-of-the-solemn-ass" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Ballad of the Solemn Ass</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">Recited at the Century Club, New York: Twelfth Night. 1906</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Come all ye good Centurions and wise men of the times,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You've made a Poet Laureate, now you must hear his rhymes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Extend your ears and I'll respond by shortening up my tale:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man cannot live by verse alone, he must have cakes and ale.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So while you wait for better things and muse on schnapps and salad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll try my Pegasus his wings and sing a little ballad:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A legend of your ancestors, the Wise Men of the East,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who brought among their baggage train a quaint and curious beast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their horses were both swift and strong, and we should think it lucky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If we could buy, by telephone, such horses from Kentucky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their dromedaries paced along, magnificent and large,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their camels were as stately as if painted by La Farge.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But this amazing little ass was never satisfied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He made more trouble every day than all the rest beside:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His ears were long, his legs were short, his eyes were bleared and dim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But nothing in the wide, wide world was good enough for him.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He did not like the way they went, but lifted up his voice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And said that any other way would be a better choice.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He braced his feet and stood his ground, and made the wise men wait,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While with his heels at all around he did recalcitrate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It mattered not how fair the land through which the road might run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He found new causes for complaint with every Morning Sun:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the shades of twilight fell and all the world grew nappy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They tied him to his Evening Post, but still he was not happy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He thought his load was far too large, he thought his food was bad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He thought the Star a poor affair, he thought the Wise Men mad:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He did not like to hear them laugh,—'twas childish to be jolly;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if perchance they sang a hymn,—'twas sentimental folly!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So day by day this little beast performed his level best</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make their life, in work and play, a burden to the rest:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when they laid them down at night, he would not let them sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But criticized the Universe with hee-haws loud and deep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One evening, as the Wise Men sat before their fire-lit tent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ate and drank and talked and sang, in grateful merriment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The solemn donkey butted in, in his most solemn way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And broke the happy meeting up with a portentous bray.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Now by my head,” Balthazar said (his real name was Choate),</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“We've had about enough of this! I'll put it to the vote.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I move the donkey be dismissed; let's turn him out to grass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And travel on our cheerful way, without the solemn ass.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The vote was aye! and with a whack the Wise Men drove him out;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But still he wanders up and down, and all the world about;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You'll know him by his long, sad face and supercilious ways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And likewise by his morning kicks and by his evening brays.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But while we sit at Eagle Roost and make our Twelfth Night cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full well we know the solemn ass will not disturb us here:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For pleasure rules the roost to-night, by order of the King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every one must play his part, and laugh, and likewise sing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The road of life is long, we know, and often hard to find,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet there's many a pleasant turn for men of cheerful mind:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We've done our day's work honestly, we've earned the right to rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We'll take a cup of friendship now and spice it with a jest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A silent health to absent friends, their memories are bright!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A hearty health to all who keep the feast with us to-night!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A health to dear Centuria, oh, may she long abide!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A health, a health to all the world,—and the solemn ass, <em>outside</em>!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dear-california" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dear California</h2>
				<p epub:type="z3998:introductory-note">(Sing to the old tune: “Araby’s Daughter”)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>How bridal thy beauty, O dear California;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How lovely and fragrant, how rich and how rare!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a virgin arrayed for the day of her wedding.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy face is aglow and thy garments are fair!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">With snow on thy mountains.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">With gold in thy fountains.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Green fields at thy feet, orange bloom in thy hair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou greetest the Sun as thy lover and bride-groom,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No land that he looks on with thee can compare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thy pines of the north are majestic in measure.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy palms of the south are a joy to the sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy wheatfields and orchards are fertile in treasure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy stars are like gems on the forehead of night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Thy children adore thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Thy God watches o’er thee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To bless thee and keep thee and guide thee aright.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be great in thy labor and glad in thy pleasure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O dear California, our pride and delight!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>1927.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="ballad-of-princeton-battle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ballad of Princeton Battle</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Along Assunpink’s woody bank we left our campfires bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While like a fox with padded feet we stole away by night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Cornwallis watched his Trenton trap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And drained his glass, and took his nap;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the ragged troops of Washington outflanked him in the night, –</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Up and away for Princeton,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">By a secret road to Princeton, –</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We dragged our guns with muffled wheels to win another fight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The icy trail was hard as iron, our footprints marked it red;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our frosty breath went up like smoke to the winking stars o’erhead;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">By Bear Swamp and by Miry Run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Our muskets weighed at least a ton;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We shivered, till o’er Stony Brook we saw the sun rise red;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Weary we tramped to Princeton;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">But all of us at Princeton</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would follow our Chief through thick and thin till the last of us was dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We looked beyond the upper bridge, across the swollen stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there along the King’s highway, we saw the redcoats gleam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">’Twas Mawhood’s regiment marching down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">To finish us off at Trenton town!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Go cut the bridge,”--and Mercer’s men crept up along the stream.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">But the British turned towards Princeton,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Came bravely back for Princeton;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the rest of that dinner dim hour was wilder than a dream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They rushed thro’ Will Clark’s orchard, among the naked trees;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With horse and foot they hammered hard; their bullets sang like bees;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And Mercer fell, and Hasley fell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">The bayonets cut us up like hell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The chain-shot mowed a bloody path beneath the twisted trees.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">It looked all black for Princeton,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">We lost our hopes of Princeton;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We wavered, and we broke and fled as leaves before the breeze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then down the hill from Tom Clark’s house, rode Washington aflame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With holy hire through smoke and fire, like mighty Mars he came.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">“Come on, my men, parade with me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">We’ll make the braggart redcoats flee.”--</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And up the hill, against the guns, rode Washington aflame.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">He turned the tide at Princeton;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">The land was saved at Princeton;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they who fought, and they who fell, won liberty and fame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Men praise our Chief for weighty words, for counsel calm and high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For prudence and enduring will, for cool, far-seeing eye:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">One thing he had all else above,--</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Courage that caught the soldier’s love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And made the soldier’s loyal heart in danger’s hour beat high.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">We saw it clear at Princeton;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">’Twas written here at Princeton:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The men who make a nation great are men who dare to die.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>May 22, 1922.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
		<article id="christ-our-comrade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Christ Our Comrade</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Comrade of the Human Heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O Son of Love Divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Partaker of our Life Thou art</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And we would share in Thine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In Thee is manhood glorified.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In Thee is God adored;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our heavenly Brother, earthly Guide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Redeemer, Friend and Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To all our learning lend Thy light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To all our work, Thy grace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Help us to honour Thee aright</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until we see Thy face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Jesus Christ of Nazareth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who died to make us free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In youth and till our latest breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We’ll trust and follow Thee.</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>For the Chapel of Mercersburg Academy.</p>
				<p>1926.</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
